CAREFULLY READ THIS COLLECTION OF INFORMATION AND LICENSE AGREEMENTS.  BY CLICKING THE "ACCEPT" OR "AGREE" BUTTON, OR OTHERWISE ACCESSING, DOWNLOADING, INSTALLING OR USING THE SOFTWARE, YOU AGREE ON BEHALF OF LICENSEE TO BE BOUND BY THIS INFORMATION AND LICENSE AGREEMENTS (TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE TO THE SPECIFIC SOFTWARE YOU OBTAIN AND THE SPECIFIC MANNER IN WHICH YOU USE SUCH SOFTWARE).

IF LICENSEE DOES NOT AGREE TO ALL OF THE INFORMATION AND LICENSE AGREEMENTS BELOW, DO NOT CLICK THE "ACCEPT" OR "AGREE" BUTTON OR ACCESS, DOWNLOAD, INSTALL OR USE THE SOFTWARE; AND IF LICENSEE HAS ALREADY OBTAINED THE SOFTWARE FROM AN AUTHORIZED SOURCE, PROMPTLY RETURN IT FOR A REFUND.

Part One: Overview.

The following information applies to certain items of third-party technology that are included along with certain Xilinx software tools.

Licensee's use of the GNU compilers (including associated libraries and utilities) may cause Licensee's software application (or board-support package) to be governed by certain third-party "open source" license agreements, as further described below.  Licensee can avoid this result by using alternative compilers, libraries, and utilities of its own choosing in lieu of the GNU compilers (and associated libraries and utilities). 
 
Note:  Licensee is solely responsible for checking the header files and other accompanying source files of all software applications created from the use of the GNU compliers (and associated libraries and utilities) because such header and/or source files may contain or describe various copyright notices and license terms and conditions governing such files, which vary from case to case based on Licensee's usage and are beyond the control of Xilinx.  This summary and the license information provided below is for reference purposes and is not intended to be a comprehensive list of all copyright notices or third-party license terms and conditions applicable to Xilinx software tools.  Licensee is solely responsible for complying with the terms and conditions imposed by third parties as applicable to the Licensee's software applications created from the use of the GNU compilers (and associated libraries and utilities).
 

The remainder of this document is organized into various parts, as follows:

Part Two: Licensee Redistributable Content.
     Index:
     Licenses and Notices:

Part Two contains a list of notices, licenses and/or other information related to certain items of third-party technology that Xilinx has identified and categorized as "Licensee Redistributable Content", which means that Xilinx has included this third-party technology with the Xilinx Software for the purpose of enabling a Xilinx customer to distribute it (or a portion of it, or a derivative form of it) as part of such customer's design or product.  

Part Three: Other Third-Party Content.
     Index:
     Licenses and Notices:

Part Three contains a list of additional notices, licenses and/or other information related to certain items of third-party technology other than as provided in Part Two.  Please note that by listing certain items in this Part Three as opposed to Part Two above, Xilinx does not abrogate or diminish in any respect either its own obligations, or Licensee's rights (if and as may be applicable), with respect to the (present or future) distribution of such items.  With respect to any license that requires Xilinx to make available to recipients of object code distributed by Xilinx pursuant to such license the corresponding source code, and if you desire to receive such source code from Xilinx, please refer to the Xilinx website at https://www.xilinx.com/products/design-tools/guest-resources.html.  If you cannot access the internet to obtain a copy thereof, then Xilinx hereby offers (which offer is valid for as long as required by the applicable license; and we may charge you the cost thereof unless prohibited by the license) to provide you with a copy of such source code; and to accept such offer send a letter requesting such source code (please be specific by identifying the particular Xilinx Software you are inquiring about (name and version number), to:  Xilinx, Inc., Legal Department, Attention: Software Compliance Officer, 2100 Logic Drive, San Jose, CA U.S.A. 95124.

Part Four: Certain Third-Party Template Licenses.
     Index:
     Text of Template Licenses:

Part Five: Additional Acknowledgements.








Part Two: Licensee Redistributable Content.

Index:

Synopsys ASIP Programmer files version R-2021.03-TGT-211109










Licenses and Notices:

Synopsys ASIP Programmer files version R-2021.03-TGT-211109
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>

The Synopsys ASIP Programmer and ASIP files are subject to the following End-User Software License and Maintenance Agreement, by accepting these terms and using such ASIP Programmer and ASIP files, (1) you agree to be bound by these terms, and (2) you acknowledge that Synopsys has no obligation to provide support to you in connection with your use of such ASIP Programmer and ASIP files. 

END-USER SOFTWARE LICENSE AND MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT

TERMS AND CONDITIONS
This agreement covers the products and services you license (or purchase) from Synopsys, unless and until we enter into a new agreement that expressly replaces this one.  If you use the Synopsys products and services as an employee of or for the benefit of your company, you represent that you have the power and authority to accept this agreement on behalf of your company.  Your company will be the licensee under this agreement.   By clicking on the “Accept” button of this agreement, or by downloading, installing or using the Synopsys products or services, you consent to the terms and conditions of this agreement on behalf of yourself and the company on whose behalf you will use the Synopsys products and services provided under this agreement.  The effective date of this agreement is the date that you first download, install or use the Synopsys products or services. If you do not agree to the terms and conditions of this agreement or if you do not have the power and authority to accept the terms and conditions of this agreement on behalf of your company, you may not use the Synopsys products and services and Synopsys is unwilling to provide you with them.


Products and Services
1.1. The Synopsys products and services that you may license or purchase under this agreement are identified in the Purchasing Agreements that you and Synopsys enter into from time to time under this agreement.  These products and services may include (but are not limited to):
(a) DesignWare, which means any software products (including Implementation IP and Verification IP), other than DesignWare Fee-Per-Use Cores, marketed by Synopsys under the brand name “DesignWare”.
(b) Licensed Software, which means a Synopsys software product other than DesignWare and DesignWare Fee-Per-Use Cores.
(c) Maintenance Services, which means the software maintenance and support services described in section 5.
(d) Training Services, which means education in the use of Synopsys software products through standard curriculum educational services courses.
1.2. The term “Licensed Products” means Licensed Software and DesignWare.
1.3. Additional terms and conditions (beyond those stated here and in any attached supplements) may apply to certain Licensed Products.  When ordering these Licensed Products, you will be given an opportunity to review the additional terms and conditions that must be accepted for you to receive the Licensed Products.  If the additional terms and conditions conflict in any way with the terms and conditions stated here, the additional terms and conditions will prevail.
Licenses
1.4. Your License Rights:  When you purchase a license (other than an evaluation license) to a Licensed Product, upon its delivery you will have a nonexclusive right to:
(a) install the Licensed Product on one or more computers;
(b) install the License Key for the Licensed Product on the computer specifically identified in the License Key;
(c) allow your End Users to use the Licensed Product and Design Techniques, during the License Term, solely for the purpose of creating, modifying, and simulating your own Designs (in the case of DesignWare, this includes validating, testing, and simulating Designs, electronic circuits and devices);
(d) in the case of DesignWare, share Design Databases with a Licensed Design Partner only to allow the Licensed Design Partner to work cooperatively on your Design to the extent permitted by its own DesignWare license (but not sublicense or assign any of your rights in the DesignWare to such Licensed Design Partner);
(e) in the case of ARC Software Development Products, use this Licensed Product, during the License Term, solely for the purpose of creating, debugging, and profiling executable software source code for execution on a System-on-Chip with an embedded ARC microprocessor or on a model of such System-on-Chip;
(f) in the case of ARC MQX Products, until you discontinue the sale and distribution of the applicable ARC MQX Licensee Products, use the ARC MQX Products to (i) customize the Board Support Package Features in the ARC MQX Product solely as necessary for use with your ARC MQX Licensee Product; (ii) create and support an ARC MQX Licensee Executable; (iii) if you have purchased a license to the “closed system license” version of an ARC MQX Product, then you may distribute, solely in or with an ARC MQX Licensee Product, an ARC MQX Licensee Executable that does not expose, directly or indirectly, any APIs of the ARC MQX Product; and (iv) if you have purchased a license to the “binary” version of an ARC MQX Product, then you may additionally distribute to ARC MQX End Customers only that portion of the Documentation necessary for ARC MQX End Customers to access the APIs, provided that such ARC MQX End Customers are obligated not to expose any of the APIs to their customers or any other third parties.
(g) make a reasonable number of copies of the Licensed Product solely for backup or archival purposes; and
(h) make a reasonable number of copies of the Documentation for the Licensed Product, and use the Documentation solely to support your use of the Licensed Product.
1.5. Implementation IP License:  In addition, when you are granted a license to any Implementation IP, you will have a nonexclusive right to:
(a) integrate the Implementation IP into your Designs to create one or more Integrated Designs; 
(b) make, use, and sell physical implementations (commonly referred to as semiconductor chips) of one or more of the Integrated Designs;
(c) distribute the Implementation IP in netlist or GDSII format as part of any of your Integrated Designs to any third party that provides foundry services to you, solely for the purpose of having that foundry make physical implementations of one or more of entire Integrated Designs of yours, as long as the third-party foundry is subject to confidentiality obligations regarding the Implementation IP that are no less restrictive than the confidentiality obligations in this agreement; and
(d) if you purchased from Synopsys the right to use certain Implementation IP in source code format, you may modify that Implementation IP in support of your development of Integrated Designs.
1.6. Node-Locked License.  If you have obtained the Licensed Product under a node-locked license, then a “node” refers to a specific machine and the License Product may be installed only on the number of nodes indicated on the applicable Synopsys Purchasing Agreement, must be used only on the node(s) on which it is installed, and may be accessed only by users who are physically present at that node.  Further, a node-locked license may only be used by one (1) user at a time running one (1) instance of the Licensed Product at a time.
1.7. Evaluation Licenses:  If you obtain an evaluation license for a Licensed Product, you will have the same license rights as described above except that you may use the Licensed Product only for the purpose of evaluating it and deciding whether to purchase a license to use it for production purposes.  You shall not use the Licensed Product to design any integrated circuits for production or pre-production purposes or any other commercial use including, but not limited to, for the benefit of your customers.  If you breach the forgoing restrictions, then you shall pay to Synopsys a license fee equal to Synopsys’s perpetual list price plus maintenance for the commercial version of the Licensed Product.  You agree that damages for such a breach would be difficult to assess, and such payment represents a reasonable assessment of the potential damage to Synopsys.  You recognized and agree that this amount is a reasonable, liquidated amount and not a penalty. Also, evaluation copies of Licensed Products are provided “AS IS”.  Therefore the warranty and indemnification provisions in this agreement do not apply to evaluation licenses.
1.8. End Users: You may designate any of your employees whose primary work location is in the designated Use Area as End Users.  
1.9. Use Area; Telecommuting Employees; Use Over a WAN:  You must ensure that your End Users use the Licensed Product only when they are in the designated Use Area, except that any End User who is your employee, whose primary work location is in the designated Use Area, and whose primary residence is within 50 miles of the designated Use Area, may access the Licensed Product from his primary residence through a secure network that requires a secure ID card or other more protective security safeguards.  If you have purchased the right to use a Licensed Product over your wide area network (commonly referred to as a “WAN”), then unless the Purchasing Agreement states otherwise, the Licensed Product may be used by your End Users who are located at any of your facilities worldwide (if you purchased the right to use over a global WAN) or at any of your facilities on the same continent on which your Key Server is located (if you purchased the right to use over a continental WAN). This section 2.6 does not apply to Licensed Products obtained under a node-locked license as referenced in section 2.3.
1.10. Key Servers; Hardware Relocation: You may not permanently relocate a Key Server outside of the designated Use Area without obtaining written approval from Synopsys.  If a Key Server becomes inoperative due to malfunction, repair, or maintenance, you may request Synopsys’s permission to set up and temporarily use a single back-up Key Server on another computer in the same Use Area until the original Key Server returns to service.
1.11. Conditions:  Your right to use the Licensed Product is conditioned upon your timely payment of the full amount of Fees due for the Licensed Product and your compliance with the terms and conditions of this agreement.  When the License Term expires, your license rights also expire and you may no longer use the Licensed Product.
1.12. Restrictions:  You may not (and may not allow anyone else to):
(a) copy or use any Licensed Product (or Documentation) in any manner that is not expressly allowed by the license rights stated above;
(b) decompile, reverse engineer, or otherwise attempt to derive the source code for any Licensed Product or any underlying algorithms, user interface techniques, or other ideas embodied in a Licensed Product;
(c) tamper with, or attempt to circumvent or disable, any License Key (this includes, for example, resetting the CPU time in order to extend the License Term, or using a false host ID number or additional virtualized copy(ies) of the host ID number to enable unauthorized copies of a License Key);
(d) distribute any copy of a Licensed Product (or Documentation) except as expressly allowed by the license rights stated above, or allow anyone other than your End Users to have access to or use (such as in a timesharing, service bureau, or application service provider model) any Licensed Product;
(e) use a Licensed Product (except ARC MQX Products) or its output to create, modify, or simulate Designs for third parties;
(f) use a Licensed Product or its output to develop or enhance any product that competes with a Synopsys product;
(g) modify or create a derivative work of any part of a Licensed Product or Documentation;
(h) disclose the results of any benchmarking of a Licensed Product (whether or not the results were obtained with assistance from Synopsys) to any third party; or
(i) use a Licensed Product in the development of any product if the failure or malfunction of that product could reasonably be expected to result in personal injury, death, or catastrophic loss.
If the License Key limits the number of End Users who may use a Licensed Product simultaneously or the number of simultaneous Clients, you must ensure that this limit is not exceeded, by platform virtualization or any other means.
1.13. Copies:  If you make backup or archival copies of a Licensed Product or Documentation, you must reproduce all copyright, trademark, and other notices that appear on the original copy.
1.14. Transfers and Assignments: You may not transfer or assign your license rights to any other person in any manner (by assignment, operation of law or otherwise) unless you have obtained written consent from Synopsys.  If you attempt to transfer or assign any of your license rights without Synopsys’s consent, the transfer or assignment will be ineffective, null, and void (and you will be in material breach of this agreement).  For purposes of this section 2.11, a transfer or assignment of your license rights will be deemed to have occurred (a) if a third party (or group of third parties acting in concert) acquires beneficial ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of either (i) your or a Parent Entity’s assets or (ii) the stock or other equity interests entitled to vote for your or a Parent Entity’s directors or equivalent managing authority, or (b) in the event of a merger, consolidation or other business combination between you or a Parent Entity and one or more third parties where your or a Parent Entity’s stockholders immediately before that transaction own (directly or indirectly), after that transaction, less than fifty percent (50%) of the stock or other equity interests entitled to vote for the directors or equivalent managing authority of the surviving entity.
1.15. Open Source Software: The Licensed Product may be delivered with software that is subject to open source licensing terms (“Open Source Software”), which terms are available upon request. Certain Open Source Software licenses require that source code be made available upon request. Licensee may request a copy of such source code by post to Synopsys at: Synopsys, Inc., Attention: Open Source Software Requests, 690 East Middlefield Road, Mountain View, California 94043, USA. Licensee agrees that all Open Source Software shall be and shall remain subject to the terms and conditions under which it is provided. The Open Source Software is provided “AS IS,” WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, AND SYNOPSYS FURTHER DISCLAIMS ALL OTHER WARRANTIES, EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, WITH RESPECT TO OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF NONINFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. NEITHER SYNOPSYS NOR THE LICENSORS OF OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE SHALL HAVE ANY LIABILITY FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION LOST PROFITS), HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.  Copyrights to the Open Source Software are held by the copyright holders indicated in the copyright notices in the corresponding source files.
Order and Delivery
1.16. Ordering Synopsys Products:  You may order the products and services identified in the Purchasing Agreements at any time by submitting an order to Synopsys through Synopsys’s on-line ordering system or as otherwise directed by Synopsys. When using Synopsys’s on-line ordering system, you shall be responsible for ensuring that all information you provide is accurate and complete and that any person placing an order on your behalf has your authority to do so.  Once you submit an order, you may not cancel or change it.  Your order must indicate which products and services you want to purchase (including, in the case of Licensed Products, the type of license, the quantity, the License Term or in the case of ARC MQX Products the applicable ARC MQX Licensee Product, the location(s) of your facility(ies) where the Licensed Products may be used (we may refer to this as the “Authorized Sites” in a Purchasing Agreement), and any other information Synopsys would need to fulfill your order (including any information needed to generate a License Key).  Synopsys may, in its reasonable discretion, accept or reject your order.  Synopsys may accept your order by sending you written or electronic notice of acceptance or simply by fulfilling your order.
1.17. Delivery:  If Synopsys accepts your order for one or more Licensed Products, Synopsys will then deliver to you the Licensed Products along with the corresponding Documentation and License Keys.  Synopsys will deliver these materials to you electronically except where prohibited by law.
1.18. Electronic Software Transfer:  When Synopsys delivers a Licensed Product by electronic software transfer, Synopsys will send you an e-mail to your designated e-mail address(es) to notify you that the Licensed Product is available.  Synopsys’s obligation to deliver the Licensed Product will be fulfilled when this e-mail notice is sent.  You will be responsible for downloading or requesting for delivery the Licensed Product and Documentation from the FTP Server and the License Key from Synopsys’s website at www.synopsys.com, unless Synopsys gives you other instructions.  You must notify Synopsys in writing if you change your designated e-mail address(es).
1.19. Tangible Media:  When Synopsys delivers Licensed Products to you on tangible media, the media may contain other software programs in addition to the Licensed Products.  If it does, you will not have a license to use (and the License Keys for the Licensed Products will not permit you to use) these other software programs, and you must not attempt to access, use, reproduce, modify, reverse engineer, or otherwise tamper with these other software programs.  If you lose or damage the media, Synopsys will, at your request, provide a replacement at a nominal charge.  All deliveries of tangible items by Synopsys, Inc. will be made F.O.B. Origin; all deliveries of tangible items by other Synopsys entities will be made Ex Works (EXW) Origin.
Fees and Payment
1.20. Fees:  The Fees for the products and services you may purchase under this agreement will be identified in the Purchasing Agreements.  You agree to pay the Fees according to the payment terms in the applicable Purchasing Agreement.
1.21. Payments:  If the applicable Purchasing Agreement does not contain specific payment terms for the Fees in question, payment of those Fees will be due within 30 days after the date of Synopsys’s invoice.  If you do not pay an amount by the scheduled due date, Synopsys will have the right to withhold the delivery of License Keys and/or terminate this agreement or a Purchasing Agreement and accelerate the due date of all remaining payments.  In this event, you will owe the entire outstanding balance as soon as you receive written notice from Synopsys that your payment is due.  All payments you make to Synopsys are non-refundable.  You may not offset any amounts you believe Synopsys owes you against any payments you make to Synopsys under this agreement.  You must make payments in U.S. dollars.  If you do not pay an amount by the due date, you must also pay a late payment charge of 1.5% per month or the highest rate permitted by law, whichever is less.
1.22. Taxes:  You will be solely responsible for paying all taxes (including sales, use, consumption, withholding, and value-added taxes and similar taxes), other than Synopsys’s income taxes, that are imposed on or result from your purchase, license, or use of Synopsys products and services.  If Synopsys is required by law to collect and remit any such taxes, Synopsys may invoice you for such taxes and you agree to pay the invoiced amount to Synopsys.  If you are required by the respective jurisdiction where the Licensed Products are used, or where services are provided, to withhold taxes from payments to Synopsys, you may withhold from the total amount due to the respective Synopsys distributing entity the minimum amount required (but no more).  You may only withhold taxes related to a payment at the time of such payment.  You must then promptly pay that amount to the appropriate tax authority and provide Synopsys with an official receipt for the payment within 60 days of your payment.
1.23. Bankruptcy:  If you become the subject of any bankruptcy, dissolution, liquidation, or similar proceedings or make a general assignment for the benefit of your creditors, Synopsys may apply any payments you have previously made to Synopsys for products or services not yet delivered by Synopsys against any amounts you owe Synopsys at that time for products or services that have been delivered by Synopsys (under this agreement or otherwise).
Services
1.24. Maintenance Services:  Maintenance Services consist of the following:
(a) Support:  Synopsys will provide you with access to SolvNet and online Documentation, and will use commercially reasonable efforts to make available the Synopsys Support Center on Monday through Friday, during Synopsys’s normal business hours, excluding Synopsys’s scheduled holidays. A valid corporate email address is required to access SolvNet and online Documentation.
(b) Updates:  Synopsys will use commercially reasonable efforts to provide Updates as they become generally available.  Any other upgrades or enhancements to the Licensed Products are not made available by Synopsys as part of Maintenance Services and may be subject to additional charges.
1.25. Updates to Terms:  Synopsys may update its Maintenance Services terms on 60 days prior written notice, provided that these updates are applied generally to its Maintenance Services customers.
1.26. Conditions:  In order to receive Maintenance Services for a Licensed Product, all of the following conditions must be met: 
(a) you must have purchased Maintenance Services for such Licensed Product (unless it is licensed under a TSL, in which case Maintenance Services are included);
(b) you must appoint a qualified contact person trained in the use of the Licensed Product to interface with Synopsys regarding Maintenance Services, and identify such person to Synopsys in advance; 
(c) you must provide Synopsys with access to the information and system facilities reasonably necessary to provide the Maintenance Services;
(d) you must follow the directions provided by the Synopsys Support Center to resolve technical problems;
(e) you must follow the operating instructions and procedures for the Licensed Product as specified in the Documentation or provided by Synopsys; and
(f) you must notify Synopsys of any error or other problem in the Licensed Product using Synopsys’s current problem reporting procedure.
1.27. Exclusions:  Synopsys will have no obligation to provide Maintenance Services for any Licensed Products that are damaged, modified (by anyone other than Synopsys), incorporated into other software, or installed in any computing environment not supported by Synopsys; or for any version of a Licensed Product other than the latest and immediately preceding version; or for any problems caused by your negligence, abuse, misuse, or by any causes beyond Synopsys’s reasonable control.
1.28. Reinstatement of Maintenance Services:  If Maintenance Services are terminated for any reason, or if you wish to renew Maintenance Services more than thirty (30) days after Maintenance Services have been terminated, you may be permitted to reinstate or renew Maintenance Services, at Synopsys’s sole option, provided that (a) Synopsys offers Maintenance Services to its customers generally for the Licensed Product in question, and (b) you pay Synopsys the following: all applicable Maintenance Services fees for the period during which you were off Maintenance Services, and Synopsys’s then-current reinstatement fee plus payment for the new Maintenance Services term.
1.29. ViewConnect:  If you wish to permit Synopsys to deliver Maintenance Services through the use of a shared customer desktop, you must download and install the ViewConnect Tool and related publicly-available, third-party software modules. You are not required to use the ViewConnect Tool, but if you choose to do so, you have the nonexclusive right to use the ViewConnect Tool only to enable Synopsys to remotely access your computer system for the purpose of providing Maintenance Services.  Your rights to the third-party software modules are separately described in their accompanying license terms.  The ViewConnect Tool and the third-party software modules are not Licensed Products nor is their use governed by this agreement.
5.7. Training Services:  Synopsys offers Training Services, which may be purchased and ordered through the online registration system found at www.synopsys.com.   
Confidentiality
1.30. Confidentiality Obligations:  Each party (you and Synopsys) agrees to abide by the following confidentiality obligations with respect to the other party’s Confidential Information:
(a) do not disclose it to any third party unless (i) the other party has given its specific and express prior written approval, (ii) the disclosure is expressly allowed under this agreement, or (iii) the disclosure is necessary to comply with a valid court order or subpoena;
(b) do not use it for any reason other than to exercise its rights and perform its obligation under this agreement; and
(c) protect it from unauthorized dissemination in the same manner as that party protects its own Confidential Information, and in any event with reasonable precautions (which include limiting access to employees and contractors on a “need-to-know” basis).
1.31. Mandatory Disclosures:  If you believe you must disclose Synopsys’s Confidential Information in order to comply with a valid court order or subpoena, you must promptly notify Synopsys and cooperate with Synopsys if Synopsys chooses to contest the disclosure requirement, seek confidential treatment of the information to be disclosed, or to limit the nature or scope of the information to be disclosed.  Synopsys will do the same if it believes it must disclose your Confidential Information in these circumstances.
1.32. Additional Obligations: In addition to your general obligations of confidentiality regarding the Licensed Products and Documentation, you must take the following steps to help prevent any unauthorized access to or use of the same:
(a) you must ensure that each End User who is your independent contractor (not your employee) has access to and uses the Licensed Products and Documentation only while working on your physical premises; and
(b) you must monitor each End User’s use of the Licensed Products to ensure that the End User abides by the terms of this agreement.
Term and Termination
1.33. Term of Agreement:  The term of this agreement will begin on the effective date stated on the signature page and will end when the last Purchasing Agreement expires, unless this agreement is terminated sooner by either party.
1.34. Term of Purchasing Agreement: Each Purchasing Agreement will have its own term, as indicated on that Purchasing Agreement.
1.35. Rights to Terminate:  Each party has the right to terminate this agreement, by giving written notice of termination to the other party, if (a) the other party breaches this agreement and (b) either the breach cannot be cured or, if the breach can be cured, it is not cured by the breaching party within 15 days after receiving written notice of the breach from the non-breaching party.  An Error will not be considered a breach of this agreement that allows you to terminate the agreement, but it could give rise to a warranty claim under section 8.
1.36. Consequences of Termination:  If and when either you or Synopsys terminates this agreement, all Purchasing Agreements in effect at that time will also terminate.  When this agreement, a Purchasing Agreement or an individual license to a Licensed Product expires or is terminated:
(a) you must (i) immediately cease all use of the Licensed Products, Documentation, Design Techniques, and other Confidential Information, (ii) promptly return to Synopsys or destroy all copies of the Licensed Products, Documentation, and other Confidential Information in your possession or control, and (iii) certify in writing to Synopsys that you have complied with clauses (i) and (ii), except, however, that your license to Implementation IP incorporated into Designs prior to termination shall continue according to its terms;
(b) you will remain obligated to pay any amounts you owe to Synopsys at that time; and
(c) the provisions of sections 4, 6, 7.4, 8.4 and 10, and the warranty disclaimers in section 8, will remain in effect.
Limited Warranty
1.37. Warranty:  For a period of 90 days from when Synopsys delivers a Licensed Product to you (the “warranty period”), Synopsys warrants that the Licensed Product will have no Errors when used on the correct platform and according to the instructions in the corresponding Documentation.  This warranty will be void if you, or anyone else other than Synopsys, modifies or attempts to modify the Licensed Product.
1.38. Warranty Claims:  To claim a breach of this warranty, you must, during the warranty period, notify Synopsys in writing of the Error or Errors that you have encountered and provide Synopsys with all the information you have, in written or electronic form, about those Errors, so that Synopsys can attempt to reproduce, diagnose, and correct the Errors.
1.39. Exclusive Remedy:  Your exclusive remedy for any breach of this warranty is that Synopsys will use commercially reasonable efforts to (at Synopsys’s option) correct the Errors you have reported or provide a replacement product that does not contain these Errors, or if Synopsys is unable to provide a correction or a replacement or determines that it will not be feasible to do so, Synopsys will refund the Fees you paid for that Licensed Product.
1.40. Disclaimer:  Except for the warranty in this Section 8, all Licensed Products, Documentation, Design Techniques, and any third party software are provided “AS IS,” without any other warranties of any kind.  Synopsys further disclaims all other warranties (express, implied, or statutory), including any warranties of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, title, or non-infringement and any warranties arising from a course of dealing or usage of trade.
Infringement Claims
1.41. Indemnity:  Synopsys will, at its own expense, be entitled to defend (or at its sole option, settle) any claim asserted against you by a third party that any Licensed Product you obtained from Synopsys under this agreement directly infringes any U.S. patent, copyright, trademark, or trade secret.  Synopsys will indemnify you for any damages you suffer and costs you reasonably incur that are directly attributable to any such claim and that are assessed against you in a final, non-appealable judgment or agreed upon by Synopsys in a settlement.
1.42. Conditions:  Synopsys’s obligations to defend and indemnify you with respect to a particular claim are subject to the following conditions:
(a) you must promptly give Synopsys written notice of the claim;
(b) you must identify the specific Licensed Product(s) at issue in the claim and indicate how the Licensed Product(s) is(are) utilized by you or your products;
(c) you must give Synopsys sole control and authority over the defense and settlement of the claim; and
(d) you must provide Synopsys with all information you have regarding the claim and cooperate with Synopsys when Synopsys defends or attempts to settle the claim.
1.43. Pro-Active Steps:  If any Licensed Product is, or Synopsys believes is likely to become, the subject of a claim for which Synopsys would be obligated to defend and indemnify you, then Synopsys may, at its option, do any of the following:
(a) obtain for you (at no cost to you) the right for you to continue using the Licensed Product as permitted by this agreement;
(b) replace or modify the Licensed Product to avoid the infringement problem, as long as there is no material loss of functionality; or
(c) if Synopsys reasonably concludes that it will not be feasible to do either of the above, terminate your license for the Licensed Product and give you a prorated refund (based on how much of the License Term has elapsed) of the Fees you paid for that license.
1.44. Exclusions:  Synopsys will have no obligation to defend or indemnify you (notwithstanding the first paragraph of this section) with respect to any claim that is based on or attributable to any of the following:
(a) any modification made to the Licensed Product by anyone other than Synopsys;
(b) the combination or use of the Licensed Product with other products, processes, or materials not supplied by Synopsys or specified in the Documentation as being necessary to use the Licensed Product;
(c) your continued engagement in infringing activities after you were notified of the infringement or after Synopsys informed you of a modification or workaround that would have avoided the infringement; and
(d) your use of the Licensed Product in a manner not permitted by this agreement.
1.45. Burden of Proof: You will have the burden of showing that indemnification is required pursuant to this section 9 and that the exclusions in section 9.4 are not applicable.
1.46. No Other Obligations:  Except as expressly stated in this section 9, Synopsys has no obligation or liability to you for any actual or alleged infringement related to the Licensed Products, Documentation, or Design Techniques.  
Other Terms
1.47. Ownership of IP Rights: Synopsys and its licensors own all Intellectual Property Rights in the Licensed Products, Documentation, and Design Techniques.  Your only rights in the Licensed Products, Documentation, and Design Techniques are the rights expressly granted in this agreement; all other rights are reserved by Synopsys.  Synopsys’s licensors are third-party beneficiaries of, and thus may enforce against you, the license restrictions and confidentiality obligations in this agreement with respect to their intellectual property and proprietary information. You will own all Intellectual Property Rights in the Designs you create using the Licensed Products, Documentation, and Design Techniques, subject to Synopsys’s (and its licensors’) ownership of the Intellectual Property Rights in the Licensed Products, Documentation, and Design Techniques.  Synopsys may freely use and disseminate any Feedback you provide.  You agree not to claim that Synopsys owes you any compensation for its use or dissemination of such Feedback.
1.48. OMITTED
1.49. OMITTED
1.50. Limitation of Liability: For each product or service you license or purchase from Synopsys under this agreement, Synopsys’s total, cumulative liability to you, including under section 9, is limited to the amount of Fees you paid for that product or service (regardless of the nature of the liability or the nature or number of claims giving rise to the liability).  Synopsys will not, under any circumstances or any theory of liability, be liable to you for any lost profits, loss of data, or consequential, incidental, or special damages arising from this agreement or the products and services provided to you under this agreement.  However, this disclaimer of Synopsys’s liability for consequential damages does not limit or reduce Synopsys’s obligations to defend and indemnify you under section 9.  The limitations of liability in this section are a fundamental part of this agreement and enable Synopsys to provide products and services to you at lower prices.  These limitations of liability are intended to apply even if an exclusive remedy is found to have failed of its essential purpose.
1.51. Export Controls: You shall remain familiar with your obligations under any and all laws, statutes, regulations, ordinances of any local, states, federal, national, or other jurisdictional locality, as applicable to the export, import, and/or end-use of Synopsys products, technology, and services.  Products and/or technology sold under this agreement may be subject to various Export Control Laws and Regulations including but not limited to, U.S. Export Administration Regulations (EAR), the U.S. Office of Foreign Asset Control (OFAC), the European Union (EU) Export Control Regime Regulation (EC) No. 428/2009, and/or the EU Consolidated Sanctions List.  Where a product and/or technology is identified as export controlled from the country(ies) of export to (1) the destination country(ies), (2) a restricted/proscribed end use, and/or (3) a restricted end user, a government-issued export license must be obtained prior to fulfillment under this agreement and in accordance with all applicable laws.  You agree that Synopsys shall not be required to complete delivery of export controlled products or technology unless and until all required export licenses have been obtained. 
1.52. Governing Law; Jurisdiction: This agreement is governed by the laws of the United States and the State of California, without regard to conflicts of laws principles.  The federal and state courts located in Santa Clara County, California have exclusive jurisdiction over any disputes arising from or relating to this agreement, and each party consents to such jurisdiction and venue.
1.53. Notices: Any notice, approval, consent, or other communication intended to have legal effect under this agreement must be given to the other party in writing, must be sent by first-class, registered, or overnight mail or private overnight courier (to the address for the other party stated on the signature page, unless the other party has given notice of a new address), and will be deemed given upon receipt or when delivery is refused.  A copy of any communication sent to Synopsys must also be sent to the attention of the General Counsel.
1.54. Waivers: Either party’s failure to enforce any provision of this agreement will not be deemed a waiver of the future enforcement of that provision or enforcement of any other provision.  In order to be binding, a waiver must be in writing and signed by the party giving the waiver.
1.55. Independent Contractors: The parties to this agreement are independent contractors.  Neither party is the agent or partner of the other party, or has any power or authority to act on behalf of the other party.
1.56. Severability: If any provision in this agreement is found to be invalid or unenforceable as written, the remaining provisions will remain in full force and effect and the invalid or unenforceable provision is to be construed (and, if necessary, modified) so that it is valid and enforceable to the greatest extent possible.
1.57. Attorneys’ Fees: The prevailing party in any action to enforce this agreement will be entitled to recover costs and expenses including reasonable attorneys’ fees.
1.58. Remedies: Except where this agreement expressly provides exclusive remedies, all rights and remedies of either party (including termination rights) are cumulative. You agree that monetary damages alone would not be an adequate remedy, and therefore Synopsys will be entitled to injunctive relief if you materially breach the license restrictions or confidentiality provisions in this agreement.
1.59. Force Majeure: Each party will be excused from performance of its obligations under this agreement, except payment obligations, to the extent that performance is rendered impossible by earthquake, fire, flood, governmental action, labor disruptions, supplier failures, or any other event or circumstance beyond that party’s reasonable control.
1.60. Construction: Section headings in this agreement are for convenience only.  The word “including” (and variations thereof) is not intended to be limiting.  No rule of strict construction is to be used when interpreting this agreement. 
1.61. Counterparts: This agreement may be signed in multiple counterparts, each of which will be deemed an original and which together will constitute one instrument.
1.62. Press Release: The parties intend to work together to prepare and publish a mutually acceptable press release concerning this agreement.
1.63. Government Users: If you are a branch or agency of the United States Government, or are acquiring any Licensed Product on behalf of any branch or agency of the United States Government, then the following provision applies.  The Licensed Products and Documentation are comprised of “commercial computer software” and “commercial computer software documentation”, as such terms are used in 48 C.F.R. 12.212, and are provided to the Government (a) for acquisition by or on behalf of civilian agencies, consistent with the policy set forth in 48 C.F.R. 12.212; or (b) for acquisition by or on behalf of units of the Department of Defense, consistent with the policies set forth in 48 C.F.R. 227.7202-1 and 227.7202-3.
1.64. Synopsys Entities: Synopsys, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, including, but not limited to, Synopsys International Limited, Synopsys International Limited Taiwan Branch, Synopsys Korea, Inc., Synopsys Technologies Company Limited and Nihon Synopsys, G.K., have agreed to their respective rights and obligations regarding the distribution of the Licensed Products and the performance of obligations related to the Licensed Products.  You acknowledge that: (a) Synopsys Inc. or any directly or indirectly wholly-owned subsidiary or branch of Synopsys, Inc. may treat a purchase order addressed to that entity, representative office or branch as having been addressed to the appropriate entity or entities or branch with distribution rights for the geographic region in which the Licensed Products will be used; and (b) delivery will be completed by the Synopsys entity or branch with distribution rights for the geographic region in which the Licensed Products will be used or service will be provided.  For products used or services provided in the Americas, Israel or Africa, the distributing Synopsys entity is Synopsys, Inc., based in California, USA.  For products used or services provided in Taiwan, the distributing Synopsys entity is Synopsys International Limited Taiwan Branch, based in Taiwan. For products used or services provided in the Republic of Korea, the distributing Synopsys entity is Synopsys Korea, Inc., based in the Republic of Korea. For products used or services provided in the People's Republic of China (PRC), the distributing Synopsys entity is Synopsys Technologies Company Limited or Synopsys International Limited.  For products used or services provided in Russia, the distributing Synopsys entity is Synopsys LLC (Moscow) or Synopsys, Inc..  For products used or services provided in Japan, the distributing Synopsys entity is Nihon Synopsys G. K., based in Japan. For products used or services provided in any country other than those identified above, the distributing Synopsys entity is Synopsys International Limited, based in Ireland.
1.65. Entire Agreement: This agreement and any applicable attachments and Purchasing Agreements are the entire agreement between the parties concerning its subject matter, and supersede any prior or contemporaneous agreements, communications, or understandings (whether written or oral).  However, any confidentiality or nondisclosure agreements that Synopsys previously entered into with you will remain in effect (according to their terms) with respect to the confidential information disclosed thereunder.  
1.66. Amendments: This agreement may be amended only by means of a written instrument signed by authorized representatives of both parties that specifically refers to this agreement and states the parties’ intention to amend it.  No additional or inconsistent terms on any purchase order or similar document you may submit to Synopsys will be binding on Synopsys or have any legal effect.


Glossary of Definitions

API means application programming interface for accessing specific functionality of an ARC MQX Product.
ARC MQX End Customer means a customer to whom you distribute an ARC MQX Licensee Product and who shall be obligated to maintain the confidentiality of any provided Documentation, and not expose any API of the ARC MQX Product to any third party.
ARC MQX Licensee Executable means an application program, in executable form, statically linked with and using certain APIs of an ARC MQX Product, for execution solely on an embedded ARC processor.
ARC MQX Licensee Product means a product owned by you, that is specifically identified to Synopsys in a Purchasing Agreement or other document accepted by Synopsys, and that incorporates an embedded processor and the ARC MQX Licensee Executable. 
ARC MQX Product means the Synopsys real-time operating system platform for the ARC processor architecture including associated source files, application programming interfaces files, and utilities for use in creating applications that run on the ARC processor architecture.
ARC Software Development Product means any MetaWare Products, nSIM Products and xCAM Products.
Board Support Package Features means those configuration files in an ARC MQX Product that define hardware components with which the ARC MQX Licensee Executable is intended to interoperate.
Client means an instance of a Licensed Product running on a computer.  This means, for example, that two Clients can be either two instances of a Licensed Product running on the same computer or one instance of a Licensed Product running on each of two computers.
Confidential Information of Synopsys means (a) the Licensed Products (in any form), the Documentation, the License Keys, and SolvNet; (b) Design Techniques and all ideas and information (such as algorithms, design rules, and design techniques) contained or embodied in the Licensed Products, Documentation, License Keys, or SolvNet; (c) the prices, discounts, payment terms, and other information in the Purchasing Agreements; (d) Synopsys Training Services materials including without limitation presentations, demonstrations, software and course handouts, and (e) any other confidential or proprietary information that Synopsys provides to you in connection with this agreement.  Your Confidential Information is any confidential or proprietary information in (i) written form that you provide to Synopsys in order for Synopsys to fulfill your orders and provide products and services to you under this agreement, and (ii) oral form that you provide to Synopsys in order to receive Maintenance Services; as long as you notify Synopsys at the time of disclosure that such information is to be treated as confidential under this agreement.  However, Feedback is not your Confidential Information.  Also, Confidential Information does not include any of the following:
(1) information that has become generally available to the public, through no fault of yours (in the case of Synopsys Confidential Information) or Synopsys (in the case of your Confidential Information) and that is not still regarded as a trade secret under laws governing information that was negligently or maliciously distributed;
(2) information that the receiving party had already obtained in a tangible form, through lawful means, before obtaining it under this agreement;
(3) information that the receiving party developed independently, without the use of any materials or information obtained from the other party in connection with this agreement; 
(4) information that the receiving party has lawfully obtained, in a tangible form, from a third party that had the right to provide it to the receiving party; or
(5) information that the disclosing party releases for publication in writing.
Design means a representation of an electronic circuit or device that you create through the use of one or more Licensed Products.  The representation may exist in various formats including, but not limited to, equations, truth tables, schematic diagrams, textual descriptions, hardware description languages, executable software source code and netlists.
DesignWare has the meaning given in section 1 of the Terms and Conditions.
Design Database means a design database for your Design that incorporates DesignWare in any format (except unencrypted source code for Implementation IP), along with all copyright and other proprietary legends for such DesignWare.
Design Techniques means Synopsys-supplied algorithms, data, circuit and logic elements, libraries, rule bases, search strategies, and other technical information used in the process of creating Designs.
DesignWare Fee-Per-Use Core means an IP core (as this term is understood in the semiconductor industry) for which Synopsys charges an additional fee each time it is used in the design of an integrated circuit.
Documentation means any user manuals, reference manuals, release, application and methodology notes, written utility programs, and other materials in any form provided by Synopsys for use with a Licensed Product.
End User means an individual who works for you as an employee or independent contractor and whom you designate and authorize to access and use a Licensed Product as permitted by this agreement.
Error means a defect in a Licensed Product that causes it to deviate substantially from the specifications in the corresponding Documentation.
Feedback means any ideas or suggestions you voluntarily provide to Synopsys (in any manner, whether in writing or orally or otherwise) regarding the Licensed Products, Documentation, or Design Techniques, including possible enhancements or improvements.
Fees means the amounts you must pay when you purchase products and services from Synopsys under this agreement, as identified in each Purchasing Agreement.
FTP Server means a Synopsys server that you can access via the Internet in order to download Licensed Products you have ordered.
Implementation IP means synthesizable designs (other than Verification IP).
Integrated Design means a Design that combines Implementation IP with the Design and does not consist primarily of Implementation IP.
Intellectual Property Rights means all patent rights, copyrights, trade secret rights, mask works, and trademark rights (including service marks and trade names), and any applications for these rights, in all countries.
Key Server means the computer with the host I.D. number that is identified in the License Key and which controls access to and enables the use of a Licensed Product.
License Key means a document (in physical or electronic format) provided by Synopsys that identifies: (a) the Licensed Product, including version number, licensed to you; (b) the Key Server; (c) the number of permitted Clients; and (d) the codes that initialize use of the Key Server.
License Term means the period of time during which you may use a Licensed Product under a particular license.
Licensed Design Partner means a third party that (a) you have engaged to work with you on a common Design; and (b) has a valid Synopsys end user license agreement for the DesignWare used in your Design.
Licensed Products has the meaning given in section 1 of the Terms and Conditions.
Licensed Software has the meaning given in section 1 of the Terms and Conditions.
Maintenance Services has the meaning given in section 1 of the Terms and Conditions.
MetaWare Product means a Synopsys software development tool used to create, profile and debug software applications that run on an embedded microprocessor, identified by Synopsys with the product name “MetaWare”.
nSIM Product  means a Synopsys software model of the instruction set of an embedded ARC microprocessor, identified by Synopsys with the product name “nSIM”.
Open Source Software has the meaning given in section 2.12 of the Terms and Conditions. 
Parent Entity means a person, company or other entity that owns, directly or indirectly, more than fifty percent (50%) of your assets or of the stock or other equity interests entitled to vote for your directors or equivalent managing authority.
Purchasing Agreement means the applicable Synopsys sales quotation, FSA schedule, purchase agreement or other agreement describing (among other things) the products and services that you have licensed or purchased, including pricing information.
SolvNet means Synopsys’s suite of online support services accessible via the Internet.
Synopsys Competitor means any corporation or other legal entity in the business of developing and/or marketing (including making generally commercially available to end user customers) one or more electronic design automation software products or intellectual property cores or related services.
System-on-Chip means an integrated circuit which integrates the microcontroller, microprocessor, peripherals and interfaces in a single Design.
TSL means a time-based technology subscription license of a Licensed Product. A TSL lasts for a specific period of time (the License Term) from when the license is delivered and includes (at no additional charge) Maintenance Services for the Licensed Product in question.
Updates means error corrections and minor improvements to the Licensed Products. 
Use Area for a Licensed Product means a single geographical site that you own or occupy as your place of business, which may consist of one or more buildings located within 5 miles of one another, and in which the Key Servers, Clients, and End Users for that Licensed Product are all located, except as modified by the right to allow End Users to telecommute or use over a WAN in section 2.6.
Verification IP means test benches (including software models, test suites, and monitors) that simulate, test, and verify the functionality of certain electronic circuits or devices.
WAN means a wide area network as referred to in section 2.6.
xCAM Product means a Synopsys software development tool that creates and uses cycle-accurate software models of an embedded ARC microprocessor, identified by Synopsys with the product name “xCAM”.
You (and variations thereof) means the entity that signs or agrees to this agreement as the customer.







Part Three: Other Third-Party Content.
     



Index:



apache httpcomponents client version 4.2.5
apache httpcomponents core version 4.2.4
apache-jakarta-commons-cli version 1.4
apache-jakarta-commons-codec version 1.6
apache-jakarta-commons-logging version 1.1.1
apache-log4j version 2.17.1
boost version 1.60.0
boost version 1.72.0
coin-or version 1.6.0
coin-or-cbc version 2.7.5
coin-or-cgl version 0.57.2
coin-or-chipps-alps version 1.4.1
coin-or-chipps-biceps version 0.93.1
coin-or-chipps-blis version 0.93.1
coin-or-clp version 1.14.5
coin-or-coinutils version 2.8.5
coin-or-cppad version 20110101.50
coin-or-dip version 0.83.0
coin-or-dylp version 1.8.2
coin-or-osi version 0.105.2
curl version 7.64.1
gcc version 11.2.0
gcc version 8.3.0
google-protobuf version 3.7.1
google-protoc version 3.7.1
javafx-base version 11.0.2
jaxb-api version 2.3.0
libstdc++ version 4.8.0
lpsolve version 5.5
oasys-rtl version 11.3
pigz version 2.4
python version 3.8.3
sevenzip version 4.65
tcl version 8.5.14
tcllib version 1.11.1
tcltk version 8.4
tdom-tdom version 0.8.2
treelite version 0.32
Visual C++ Redistributable for Visual Studio version 14.29.30133.0
xerces-c version 3.2.3
xgboost version 0.82
zlib version 1.2.8










Licenses and Notices:

apache httpcomponents client version 4.2.5
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
The text of the Apache License, Version 2, a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, or as applicable, applies to the above-listed file(s).

Apache HttpComponents Client
Copyright 1999-2012 The Apache Software Foundation

This product includes software developed at
The Apache Software Foundation (http://www.apache.org/).









apache httpcomponents core version 4.2.4
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
Apache v 2: The text of the Apache License, Version 2.0, a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, or as applicable, applies to the above-listed file(s).


Copyright 1999-2005 The Apache Software Foundation
Copyright 2005 Brian Goetz and Tim Peierls









apache-jakarta-commons-cli version 1.4
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>


The text of the Apache License, Version 2.0, a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, or as applicable, applies to the above-listed file(s).



Copyright 2001-2017 The Apache Software Foundation 


apache-jakarta-commons-codec version 1.6
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
The text of the Apache License, Version 2, a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, or as applicable, applies to the above-listed file(s).
Copyright 2001-2009 The Apache Software Foundation











apache-jakarta-commons-logging version 1.1.1
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
The text of the Apache License, Version 2, a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, or as applicable, applies to the above-listed file(s).
Copyright 2001-2007 The Apache Software Foundation















apache-log4j version 2.17.1
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>


The text of the Apache License, Version 2, a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, or as applicable, applies to the above-listed file(s).



Copyright 1999-2005 The Apache Software Foundation
Copyright 2005-2006 Tim Fennell
Copyright 2004 Jason Paul Kitchen
Copyright 1999-2021 Apache Software Foundation
Copyright 2017 Remko Popma
Copyright 2002-2012 Ramnivas Laddad Juergen Hoeller Chris Beams


Boost version 1.60.0
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>

Boost Software License - Version 1.0 - August 17th, 2003

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or organization
obtaining a copy of the software and accompanying documentation covered by
this license (the "Software") to use, reproduce, display, distribute,
execute, and transmit the Software, and to prepare derivative works of the
Software, and to permit third-parties to whom the Software is furnished to
do so, all subject to the following:

The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement, including
the above license grant, this restriction and the following disclaimer,
must be included in all copies of the Software, in whole or in part, and
all derivative works of the Software, unless such copies or derivative
works are solely in the form of machine-executable object code generated by
a source language processor.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT
SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.



Copyright 2006-2015 Paul A. Bristow
Copyright 2014-2015 Samuel Debionne Grenoble France
Copyright 2000-2001 Stephen Cleary rem rem Distributed
Copyright 2008 Federico J. Fernandez
Copyright 2010-2015 Edward Diener
Copyright 1999, 2001 Nicolai M. Josuttis
Copyright 2006-2015 Steven Watanabe
Copyright 2007 Andreas Kloeckner
Copyright 2003 Jeremy Siek Authors Lie-Quan Lee Jeremy Siek and Douglas Gregor
Copyright 2002-2004 Thomas Witt
Copyright 2004 Aaron W. LaFramboise Roland Schwarz Michael Glassford
Copyright 2008 Rep Invariant Systems Inc. (info@repinvariant.com)
Copyright 2013 Rene Rivera Distributed
Copyright 2010, 2014 Athanasios Iliopoulos
Copyright 2001, 2004 Jeremy Siek <jsiek@cs.indiana.edu> Distributed
Copyright 1994 Hewlett-Packard Co
Copyright 2009-2014 Neil Groves. Distributed
Copyright 2007 Alexandre Courpron
Copyright 2002 Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
Copyright 2007 Timmo Stange
Copyright 2011 Paul A. Bristow comments Distributed
Copyright 1999-2001 Beman Dawes David Abrahams
Copyright 2003 Sam Nabialek
Copyright 2009 Eric Bose-Wolf
Copyright 2011 Takaya Saito
Copyright 2001-2003 Toon Knapen
Copyright 2010 Eric Jourdanneau Joel Falcou
Copyright 2009-2015 Mario Mulansky
Copyright 2009-2010 Mathias Gaunard
Copyright 2013 Andreas Hehn <hehn@phys.ethz.ch> ETH Zurich
Copyright 2009 Trustees of Indiana University Authors Jeremiah J. Willcock Andrew Lumsdaine
Copyright 2013 Joaquim Duran
Copyright 2003, 2009 Pavel Baranov
Copyright 2010 Dean Michael Berris Distributed
Copyright 2005 Daniel Egloff. Distributed
Copyright 2010 Thomas Claveirole
Copyright 2005 John Maddock & Thorsten Ottosen
Copyright 2015 Bruno Dutra
Copyright 2007 David Deakins
Copyright 2006-2008 Johan Rade
Copyright 2002-2004, 2006, 2009 Vladimir Prus
Copyright 2008 Author Matyas W Egyhazy
Copyright 2011 Beman Dawes.&nbsp
Copyright 2002 Raghavendra Satish
Copyright 2002-2003 Juan Carlos Arevalo-Baeza
Copyright 2012 Lee Hodgkinson
Copyright 2010 Dean Michael Berris. <mikhailberis@gmail.com> Instead of using std tmpnam we
Copyright 2008, 2010 Gunter Winkler <guwi17@gmx.de>
Copyright 2006 Eric Niebler Olivier Gygi. Distributed
Copyright 2012 IBM Corp
Copyright 2001 Dave Abrahams and Daryle Walker
Copyright 2013 Nakhar Agrawal
Copyright 2009 Trustees of Indiana University Authors Jeremiah Willcock Andrew Lumsdaine
Copyright 2010 Thomas Heller For the example
Copyright 2008 Gennaro Prota Distributed
Copyright 2002 Jeff Garland and Beman Dawes
Copyright 2008-2009 Ben Hanson os
Copyright 2009-2012 David Abrahams Vicente Botet Ion Gaztanaga
Copyright 2009 Dmitry Bufistov Andrew Sutton
Copyright 2009 Dustin Spicuzza
Copyright 2000 John Maddock and Steve Cleary
Copyright 2006-2007, 2011, 2013-2014 Paul Bristow
Copyright 2004 Cromwell D. Enage
Copyright 2002-2012 Paul Mensonides
Copyright 1997-2001 University of Notre Dame. Author Jeremy G. Siek
Copyright 2004-2014 boost
Copyright 2012 Christoph Koke
Copyright 2001-2012 Hartmut Kaiser Distributed
Copyright 2007-2012 John Maddock & Paul A. Bristow
Copyright 2001-2009, 2014 Steven J. Ross
Copyright 2005-2007 Matthew Calabrese
Copyright 2001 Daniel C. Nuffer
Copyright 2015 Nuxi https nuxi.nl
Copyright 2012 ohn Maddock
Copyright 2013 Ruslan Baratov
Copyright 2002, 2004 Pavel Vozenilek
Copyright 2002 Aleksey Gurtovoy (agurtovoy@meta-comm.com)
Copyright 2005 Redshift Software Inc
Copyright 2004 Bertolt Mildner
Copyright 2014-2015 Boris Rasin and Antony Polukhin
Copyright 2006-2007 notice to include the year
Copyright 2000 Keld Helsgaun
Copyright 2005 Voipster Indrek dot Juhani at voipster dot com
Copyright 2003 Giovanni Bajo
Copyright 2007 David Gleich
Copyright 2005 Stefan Arentz
Copyright 2005, 2007-2008 Aaron Windsor
Copyright 2006 Alisdair Meredith
Copyright 2009-2015 Karsten Ahnert
Copyright 2013 Nikhar Agrawal
Copyright 2001 Andrei Alexandrescu. Distributed
Copyright 1999-2003 Jaakko Jarvi (jaakko.jarvi@cs.utu.fi)
Copyright 2009 Trustees of Indiana University Author Jeremiah Willcock
Copyright 2009 Tor Brede Vekterli
Copyright 2010 Matthias Walter (xammy@xammy.homelinux.net)
Copyright 2010 Gevorg Voskanyan
Copyright 2001-2003 Dan Nuffer
Copyright 2004-2012 Eric Niebler. Distributed
Copyright 2000-2006 Jeremy Siek David Abrahams
Copyright 1999-2001 Jaakko Jarvi (jaakko.jarvi@cs.utu.fi) Gary Powell (gwpowell@hotmail.com)
Copyright 2003 Roland Richter
Copyright 2003 Synge Todo
Copyright 2010 Niels Dekker
Copyright 2010 Gordon Woodhull modified from MSMv2
Copyright 2014 Ian Forbed
Copyright 2013 Agustn Berg
Copyright 2014 Christpher Kormanyos
Copyright 2015 Edward Nevill
Copyright 2009, 2013 Sebastian Redl Distributed
Copyright 2002 Ronald Garcia
Copyright 2003 Jaap Suter
Copyright 2009-2011, 2014-2015 LRI UMR
Copyright 2014 Boris Rasin Antony Polukhin
Copyright 2005, 2010 Daniel Wallin David Abrahams
Copyright 2011 Matthias Born
Copyright 2002-2009 Vladimir Prus Robert Ramey and Takatoshi Kondo
Copyright 2009-2011 Gunter Winkler David Bellot
Copyright 1998-1999 Greg Colvin and Beman Dawes
Copyright 2005-2008 Matthias Troyer
Copyright 2001-2008, 2010 Douglas Gregor
Copyright 2002 Darin Adler. Distributed
Copyright 2010 W.P. McNeill
Copyright 2015 Charly Chevalier
Copyright 2003 Institute of Transport Railway Construction and Operation University of Hanover Germany
Copyright 2013 Evgeny Panasyuk
Copyright 2014 Glen Fernandes
Copyright 2001 Jens Mauer
Copyright 2008-2011 Joachim Faulhaber Distributed
Copyright 2004-2012, 2014 Eric Niebler
Copyright 2015 Michael Caisse ciere.com
Copyright 2015 Gregor de Cillia
Copyright 1994-2015 Beman Dawes
Copyright 2013 Nat Goodspeed
Copyright 2009 Dean Michael Berris <me@deanberris.com>
Copyright 2004 Ralf Mattethat
Copyright 2000-2013 Joerg Walter Mathias Koch Athanasios Iliopoulos
Copyright 2005 Pablo Aguilar
Copyright 2002-2009 Daniel Frey
Copyright 1999-2006 Cortex Software GmbH Kantstrasse
Copyright 2008-2015 Marshall Clow
Copyright  Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2010 Larry Evans
Copyright 2004 Brian Ravnsgaard Riis license Boost Software License
Copyright 2002-2003 Herv Brnnimann Guillaume Melquiond Sylvain Pion
Copyright 2009-2012 Lorenzo Caminiti Distributed
Copyright 2008-2012 Simonson Lucanus
Copyright 2013 Krzysztof Czainski
Copyright 2009 Trustees of Indiana University. Authors Michael Hansen
Copyright 2013 Alex Korobka
Copyright 1998-2005 Joel de Guzman Hartmut Kaiser
Copyright 2009-2011 Christopher Schmidt
Copyright 1986 International Organization for Standardization
Copyright 2010 Georg Fritzsche
Copyright 2003-2004, 2007-2010, 2012, 2014 Howard Hinnant
Copyright 2014 Lee Clagett
Copyright 2009 David Abrahams Vicente Botet
Copyright 2011 Paul A. Bristow comments
Copyright 2009 Trustees of Indiana University. Authors Michael Hansen Andrew Lumsdaine
Copyright 2002 R.W. Grosse-Kunstleve
Copyright 2000-2003 Dave Abrahams Steve Cleary Beman Dawes Howard Hinnant & John Maddock
Copyright 2001 Eric Ford & Hubert Holin
Copyright 2015 Mario Lang
Copyright 2012, 2014 Pieter Bastiaan Ober
Copyright 2006 David Abrahams Jeremy Siek Vladimir Prus
Copyright 2010 Head Geek
Copyright 2005 David Abrahams and Aleksey Gurtovoy. Distributed
Copyright 2010-2011 Michael Caisse
Copyright 2004, 2006 Michael Stevens
Copyright 2002 Peter Dimov and David Abrahams
Copyright 2000-2013 Joerg Walter Mathias Koch. David Bellot
Copyright 2006-2010, 2012 Juergen Hunold
Copyright 2000 Cadenza New Zealand Ltd Distributed
Copyright 2011-2013 Mario Mulansky Distributed
Copyright (C) 2008 2009 Tim Blechmann based on code by Cory Nelson 
Copyright 2005-2006 Daniel Egloff Olivier Gygi. Distributed
Copyright 2000 Gavin Collings
Copyright 2006 Alexander Nasonov & Paul A. Bristow
Copyright 2004-2007, 2010 Peder Holt
Copyright 2002-2010, 2012 The Trustees of Indiana University
Copyright 2011 Paul A. Bristow Inc Boost.Math
Copyright 2007 Nikolay Mladenov
Copyright 2002 Indiana University
Copyright 2008 Gautam Sewani
Copyright 2005-2006 Danny Havenith
Copyright 2006 Eric Niebler Olivier Gygi
Copyright 2013 Cromwell D. Enage Distributed
Copyright 2001 Indiana University Author Jeremy G. Siek
Copyright 2005 Jeremy G. Siek Authors Jeremy G. Siek
Copyright 2001-2002 Python Software Foundation
Copyright 2010 Just Software Solutions Ltd
Copyright 2008 David Jenkins. Distributed
Copyright 1999, 2001 Boost.org
Copyright 2002-2003 Eric Friedman
Copyright 2001 Samuel Krempp krempp@crans.ens-cachan.fr Distributed
Copyright 2001 University of Notre Dame. Authors Jeremy G. Siek and Lie-Quan Lee
Copyright 2011 ACM
Copyright 2012 Google Inc
Copyright 2013 University of Warsaw. Authors Piotr Wygocki
Copyright 2001-2002 Joel de Guzman MT code
Copyright 2003 Jonathan de Halleux
Copyright 2015 Kohei Takahshi
Copyright 2013 Tim Blechmann Linux-specific code by Phil Endecott
Copyright 2008, 2010-2011 Christophe Henry
Copyright 2007 Christoper Kohlhoff
Copyright 2005 Matthias Troyer and Dave Abrahams
Copyright 2009-2014 Vladimir Batov
Copyright 2004 Stefan Slapeta
Copyright 2001 Eric Ford
Copyright Adam Wulkiewicz 2015
Copyright 2012 Michele Caini
Copyright 2002-2006 Kiyoshi Matsui <kmatsui@t3.rim.or.jp>
Copyright 2012-2013 Martin Husemann
Copyright 2004-2006 Olaf Krzikalla
Copyright 2006 Olivier Gygi Daniel Egloff. Distributed
Copyright 2000-2007 CrystalClear Software Inc
Copyright 2007-2008 CodeRage LLC Author Jonathan Turkanis Contact turkanis at coderage dot com
Copyright 2008-2010 Gordon Woodhull
Copyright 2006 Boris Gubenko. HP-UX has
Copyright 2010, 2012-2015 Vicente Botet
Copyright 2011-2012 Brandon Kohn
Copyright 2012 Fernando Vilas
Copyright 2012 Boris Schaeling Distributed
Copyright 2006 Stephan Diederich
Copyright 2000 Dave Abrahams Steve Cleary Beman Dawes Aleksey Gurtovoy Howard Hinnant & John Maddock
Copyright 2010 Dean Michael Berris
Copyright 2005 troy
Copyright 2007-2010 Frank Mori Hess
Copyright 2002-2010 Andreas Huber Doenni Distributed
Copyright 2011 Paul A. Bristow - filename changes for boost-trunk
Copyright 1991-2009 Unicode Inc
Copyright 2010 Dean Michael Berris. Instead of using the potentially dangrous tempnam function that's part of the C standard library on Unix Linux we
Copyright 2003-2004 Neil Groves & Thorsten Ottosen & Pavol Droba
Copyright 2011 Paul Heil
Copyright 2009 ArtVPS Ltd
Copyright 2007 Paul
Copyright 2009 Pablo Halpern
Copyright 2009 Matthias Vallentin
Copyright 2001-2013 Hartmut Kaiser
Copyright 2014-2015 Steven Ross Distributed
Copyright 2005 Terje Sletteb and Kevlin Henney
Copyright 2007 Baruch Zilber
Copyright 1999-2004, 2006 Jeremy Siek
Copyright 2012-2014 Glen Joseph Fernandes glenfe at live dot com
Copyright 2014-2015, 2024 John Fletcher
Copyright 2015 Mario Mulansky <mario.mulansky@gmx.net>
Copyright 2002-2008 Robert Ramey and Joaquin M Lopez Munoz
Copyright 2003 David Abrahams and Nikolay Mladenov
Copyright 2013 Thomas Sailer
Copyright 2004 Kristopher Beevers
Copyright 2004 Vyacheslav E. Andrejev
Copyright 2008-2013 Tim Blechmann
Copyright 2004 Trustees of Indiana University Authors Andrew Lumsdaine Lie-Quan Lee Jeremy G. Siek Douglas Gregor
Copyright 2011 Joerg Becker
Copyright 2007 Matthias Troyer <troyer@boost-consulting.com>
Copyright 1997-2001 University of Notre Dame. Authors Lie-Quan Lee
Copyright 2006 Ralf W. Grosse-Kunstleve & David Abrahams
Copyright 2001 Ronald Garcia Indiana University (garcia@osl.iu.edu)
Copyright 2000 Maarten Keijzer
Copyright 2008 Jorge Lodos
Copyright 2001-2007 Hartmut Kaiser Revised
Copyright 1995 Maarten Hilferink Amsterdam the Netherlands
Copyright 2013 Paul A. Bristow. Added some Quickbook snippet markers
Copyright 2000-2015 Peter Dimov
Copyright 2008 Runar Undheim Robert Ramey & John Maddock
Copyright 2000 Mark Rodgers
Copyright 1999 Netscape Communications
Copyright 2001 Stephen Silver
Copyright 1998-2015 Joel de Guzman
Copyright 2009, 2014-2015 Oliver Kowalke
Copyright 2013 Andrey Semashev. Distributed
Copyright 2003-2005 Thorsten Ottosen & Larry Evans
Copyright 2013 Bjorn Roald
Copyright 1992-1996, 1998-2006 Free Software Foundation Inc
Copyright 1999 Beman Dawes and Daryle Walker
Copyright 2003-2015 Christopher M. Kohlhoff
Copyright 2002 John Maddock and Dave Abrahams
Copyright 1997, 2009, 2014 Microsoft Corp
Copyright 2010 Carl Philipp Reh
Copyright 1998-2015 John Maddock
Copyright 2014 Christoph Weiss
Copyright 2003-2015 Joaqun M Lpez Muoz. Distributed
Copyright 2010 Nuovation System Designs LLC Grant Erickson <gerickson@nuovations.com>
Copyright 2003 Rational Discovery LLC Distributed
Copyright 2003-2009 Matthias Christian Schabel
Copyright 2001-2004 Peter Dimov and Multi Media Ltd
Copyright 2007-2012 Joachim Faulhaber
Copyright 2013-2015 Oracle and or its affiliates
Copyright 2002 William E. Kempf Distributed
Copyright 2008 Bruno Lalande
Copyright 2012, 2015 Agustin K-ballo Berge
Copyright 2003-2011, 2014 LASMEA UMR
Copyright 2004 Michael Glassford
Copyright 2007 Stanford University Authors David Gleich
Copyright 2014 Marco Guazzone (marco.guazzone@gmail.com)
Copyright 2001 Bruce Florman
Copyright 2000-2006, 2012-2013 Daryle Walker
Copyright 1999-2003 Jaakko Jarvi
Copyright 2009 Phil Endecott
Copyright 1999-2010 Aleksey Gurtovoy
Copyright 2000, 2002 Gary Powell (gwpowell@hotmail.com)
Copyright 2011 Boris Schaeling (boris@highscore.de)
Copyright 2008, 2010 Gunter Winkler <guwi17@gmx.de> Distributed
Copyright 2009-2010 Datasim Education BV
Copyright 2004 Jonathan Graehl
Copyright 1997-2000 Metrowerks Corp
(C) 2011-2013 Andrew Hundt <ATHundt@gmail.com> 
Copyright 2006-2008 Anthony Williams Distributed
Copyright 2006 Thorsten Ottosen. Distributed
Copyright 2006 Matthias Troyerk
Copyright 2006 Tomas Puverle
Copyright 2007-2008 Vladimir Prus David Abrahams Michael Stevens Hartmut Kaiser Ion Gaztanaga
Copyright 2010 Josh Wilson
Copyright 2009-2012 Vicente J.Botet Escriba
Copyright 2004, 2009-2010 Chris Hoeppler
Copyright 2004-2011 Michael Stevens David Bellot
Copyright 2003 Vaclav Vesely
Copyright 2002-2003 Herv Brnnimann
Copyright 2001-2002 Daryle Walker and Stephen Cleary
Copyright 2010-2011 Barend Gehrels
Copyright 2013 Paul A. Bristow Doxygen comments changed
Copyright 1997-2000 University of Notre Dame. Authors Andrew Lumsdaine Lie-Quan Lee Jeremy G. Siek Doug Gregor D. Kevin McGrath
Copyright 2003 Gunter Winkler Joerg Walter
Copyright 2000 Steve Cleary Beman Dawes Howard Hinnant and John Maddock
Copyright 2013 Cray Inc
Copyright 2003-2009 Jan Gaspar
Copyright 2009-2015 Artyom Beilis
Copyright 2004-2015 Ion Gaztanaga
Copyright 2001-2007 Joel de Guzman Dan Marsden Tobias Schwinger
Copyright 2001 Vladimir Prus <ghost@cs.msu.su> Authors Andrew Lumsdaine Lie-Quan Lee Jeremy G. Siek Douglas Gregor
Copyright 2000 David Abrahams. Distributed
Copyright 2014-2015 NumScale SAS
Copyright 2004 Douglas Gregor and Jeremy Siek
Copyright 2001-2007 Hartmut Kaiser --
Copyright 2014 Renato Tegon Forti Antony Polukhin
Copyright 2004 The Trustees of Indiana University Authors Andrew Lumsdaine Lie-Quan Lee Jeremy G. Siek
Copyright 2008, 2010 Intel Corp
Copyright 2000-2005 Kevlin Henney
Copyright 2002 Brad King (brad.king@kitware.com) Douglas Gregor (gregod@cs.rpi.edu)
Copyright 2002-2005, 2014-2015 Peter Dimov. Distributed
Copyright 2010 Sergey GooRoo Olendarenko
Copyright 2013 Alberto Santini Author Alberto Santini <alberto@santini.in>
Copyright 2002-2003 Guillaume Melquiond Sylvain Pion
Copyright 2011-2012 Vicente J.Botet Escriba. Distributed
Copyright 2003 Dan Watkins
Copyright 2008 CodeRage LLC
Copyright 2009, 2013 Carl Barron
Copyright 2012 yyyy yyyy <typhoonking77@hotmail.com>
Copyright 2007 CodeRage Author Jonathan Turkanis
Copyright 2014-2015 Glen Joseph Fernandes
Copyright 2009 Edward Grace
Copyright 2000-2005 Steve Cleary Beman Dawes Howard Hinnant & John Maddock
Copyright 2009 Yuriy Krasnoschek
Copyright 2009 Daniel Frey and Robert Ramey
Copyright 2001 Vladimir Prus <ghost@cs.msu.su>
Copyright 2011 Simon West. Distributed
Copyright 2006-2011 Andy Tompkins
Copyright 2011 Jan Frederick Eick
Copyright 2008 Lubomir Bourdev and Hailin Jin
Copyright 2007-2008 Steven Watanabe Joseph Gauterin Niels Dekker
Copyright 2005 Trustees of Indiana University Authors Andrew Lumsdaine Douglas Gregor
Copyright 2002-2004, 2006 Ralf W. Grosse-Kunstleve
Copyright 2002 Andrei Alexandrescu
Copyright 2010-2011 David Bellot
Copyright 2005-2007 Stefan Seefeld
Copyright 2011-2013 Andrew Hundt
Copyright 2005 Henry S. Warren
Copyright 2003, 2006-2007 Daniel Walker
Copyright 2010 Paul A. Bristow added Doxygen comments
Copyright 2008-2010 Joseph Gauterin Niels Dekker
Copyright 2012 K R Walker
Copyright 3350, 3600, 3799, 6974 issues References <379990.36007.qm@web33507.mail.mud.yahoo.com>
Copyright 2004-2010 Alexander Nasonov
Copyright 2005-2012 Anthony Williams
Copyright 2008-2013, 2015 Vicente J. Botet Escriba Distributed
Copyright 2013 Antony Polukhin Move semantics implementation
Copyright 2014 Erik Erlandson
Copyright 2013-2014 Agustin Berge
Copyright 2010-2012, 2014-2015 Andrii Sydorchuk
Copyright 2002, 2004 Herve Bronnimann
Copyright 2006 Michael van der Westhuizen
Copyright 1999 Kevlin Henney and Dave Abrahams
Copyright 2005 Igor Chesnokov mailto ichesnokov@gmail.com
Copyright 2004 Joe Coder. Distributed
Copyright 2011 Kwan Ting Chan
Copyright 2011-2012 Nathan Ridge
Copyright 2012-2014 Glen Fernandes. Distributed
Copyright 2001 Housemarque Oy
Copyright 2013 Kyle Lutz
Copyright 2005-2006, 2009 Alexander Nasonov. Distributed
Copyright 2013-2015 Boost.Test team
Copyright 2013 Paul A. Bristow Doxygen comments changed for new
Copyright 2005 to
Copyright 2003 Bruce Barr Authors Andrew Lumsdaine Lie-Quan Lee Jeremy G. Siek
Copyright 2015 Ion Gaztanaga. Distributed
Copyright 2010 Igor R
Copyright 2009-2012, 2014 Marco Guazzone
Copyright 1997-2001 University of Notre Dame. Authors Jeremy G. Siek Lie-Quan Lee Andrew Lumsdaine
Copyright 2014 MetaScale SAS
Copyright 2008-2012 Daniel Walker Eric Niebler Michel Morin
Copyright 2009-2011 Helge Bahmann
Copyright 2004 Douglas Gregor and Jeremy Siek Distributed
Copyright 2010 Olaf Peter
Copyright 2010-2012 Thomas Mang
Copyright 2006 Stephen Nutt
Copyright 2009 Pablo Halpern. Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2002 Martin Ecker
Copyright 2005 Vladimur Prus
Copyright 2005 David Abrahams Matthias Troyer Michael Gauckler
Copyright 2003, 2006 Gottfried Ganauge
Copyright 2010-2013 Thomas Heller
Copyright 2001 Doug Gregor
Copyright 2013 Alain Miniussi <alain.miniussi@oca.eu>
Copyright 2005-2011 Daniel James
Copyright 2013 Pascal Germroth
Copyright 2003 Giovanni Bajo Copyrigh
Copyright 2012 Oswin Krause
Copyright 2000 John Maddock (john@johnmaddock.co.uk)
Copyright 2005 Sergey Shandar
Copyright 2010, 2012 Christopher Schmidt Nathan Ridge
Copyright 2003-2007 Jonathan Turkanis Distributed
Copyright 2002-2004 Martin Wille
Copyright 2013 Paul A. Bristow additions for more colors and alignments
Copyright 1997-2001 University of Notre Dame. Authors Jeremy G. Siek Andrew Lumsdaine Lie-Quan Lee
Copyright 2001, 2015 Raffi Enficiaud
Copyright 2003 Rational Discovery LLC
Copyright 2009-2011 Steven Watanabe Distributed
Copyright 2010 Thomas Claveirole Authors Andrew Lumsdaine Lie-Quan Lee Jeremy G. Siek Thomas Claveirole
Copyright 2002-2003 David Moore William E. Kempf
Copyright 2002 Marc Wintermantel (wintermantel@imes.mavt.ethz.ch) ETH Zurich Center of Structure Technologies
Copyright 2008 Gunter Winkler <guwi17@gmx.de> Thanks to Tiago Requeijo for providing
Copyright 2004-2006 Arkadiy Vertleyb
Copyright 1999-2001 Paul Moore
Copyright 2001 Ronald Garcia Indiana University (garcia@osl.iu.edu) Andrew Lumsdaine Indiana University (lums@osl.iu.edu). Distributed
Copyright 2010 Ilya Murav'jov
Copyright 2012 David Bailey
Copyright 2010 Ignacy Gawedzki
Copyright 2001 Ronald Garcia Indiana University (garcia@osl.iu.edu) Andrew Lumsdaine Indiana University (lums@osl.iu.edu)
Copyright 2002, 2004-2009, 2012 Trustees of Indiana University
Copyright 2006 Marcin Kalicinski Distributed
Copyright 2009-2010, 2013, 2015 Sebastian Redl
Copyright 2001, 2006 &nbsp John Maddock
Copyright 2001-2003 Mac Murrett
Copyright 2007-2015 Barend Gehrels Amsterdam the Netherlands
Copyright 2013 Andreas Pokorny
Copyright 2010-2011 Jeroen Habraken
Copyright 2001-2002 Hubert Holin and Daryle Walker
Copyright 2012 David Stone
Copyright 2004-2009 Robert Ramey Martin Ecker and Takatoshi Kondo
Copyright 2001-2002 Jeremy Siek and John R. Bandela
Copyright 2013 Petr Machata Red Hat Inc
Copyright 2009 Jesse Williamson
Copyright 2011 Garmin Ltd. or its subsidiaries
Copyright 2012 Duncan Exon Smith
Copyright 2005 Ion Gaztaaga
Copyright 2001 Francois Faure
Copyright 2014 iamvfx@gmail.com
Copyright 2011 Robert Nelson
Copyright 2009 Eric Moyer -
Copyright 2010 Neil Groves Distributed
Copyright 2000-2001 Gary Powell (gary.powell@sierra.com)
Copyright 2002-2004 David Abrahams and Aleksey Gurtovoy
Copyright 2012-2015 Louis Dionne
Copyright 2002-2006 Pavol Droba
Copyright 2012-2015 Kohei Takahashi
Copyright 2011-2015 Akira Takahashi
Copyright 2009 Jean-Francois Ostiguy
Copyright 2012-2013 Rajeev Singh
Copyright 2013 Andrey
Copyright 2007-2008 Anthony Williams ifndef THREAD
Copyright 2005-2007 Douglas Gregor <doug.gregor@gmail.com>
Copyright 1996 Ronald Van Iwaarden
Copyright 2012 Benjamin Sobotta
Copyright 2009 Nasos Iliopoulos Gunter Winkler
Copyright 2006-2007, 2009-2010 Andy Tompkins. Distributed
Copyright 2000-2003, 2006 Jens Maurer
Copyright 2013 John Maddock Antony Polukhin
Copyright 2003 Jonathan de Halleux (dehalleux@pelikhan.com)
Copyright 2012 Paul A. Bristow with new tests
Copyright 2007-2010 Andrew Sutton
Copyright 2014 Kohei Takahashi Distributed
Copyright 2013 John Maddock Distributed
Copyright 2005 Jong Soo Park
Copyright 2004 Rani Sharoni Robert Ramey Pavel Vozenilek and Christoph Ludwig
Copyright 2011 Laurent Gomila
Copyright 2011 Roji Philip
Copyright 2001-2003 Douglas Gregor (gregod@cs.rpi.edu)
Copyright 2013-2014 Damien Buhl
Copyright 2008 Michael Marcin
Copyright 2004 Robert Ramey Indiana University (garcia@osl.iu.edu) Andrew Lumsdaine Indiana University (lums@osl.iu.edu)
Copyright 2008, 2014 Thijs van den Berg
Copyright 2004-2007 Daniel Wallin
Copyright 2014 Glen Fernandes C
Copyright 1999-2003 Boris Fomitchev
Copyright 2014 Jessica Hamilton
Copyright 2000 Jeremy Siek and Andrew Lumsdaine
Copyright 2010 Eric Jourdanneau Joel Falcou Distributed
Copyright 2012 Leo Goodstadt
Copyright 2012 Authors David Doria
Copyright 1999, 2001-2003 Dave Abrahams
Copyright 2004 Jonathan Brandmeyer
Copyright 2002 Rani Sharoni (rani_sharoni@hotmail.com) and Robert Ramey
Copyright 2011, 2013-2014 Jamboree
Copyright 2004 Angus Leeming
Copyright 2006 Xiaogang Zhang
Copyright 2002-2003 Beman Dawes Boost.Filesystem Distributed
Copyright 2001 Francois Faure iMAGIS-GRAVIR UJF
Copyright 2005 Christopher Diggins
Copyright 2008 N. Musatti
Copyright 2001-2009 Daniel Nuffer
Copyright 2002 Robert Ramey-
Copyright 1996-1999 Silicon Graphics Computer Systems Inc
Copyright 2012 Benjamin Schindler
Copyright 2007 Douglas Gregor and Matthias Troyer
Copyright 2006 Trustees of Indiana University Authors Jeremy G. Siek and Douglas Gregor <dgregor@cs.indiana.edu>
Copyright 2001 Gennadiy Rozental & Ullrich Koethe
Copyright 2001 Jeremy Siek Douglas Gregor Brian Osman
Copyright 2007 Noel Belcourt
Copyright 2001 Dietmar Kuehl
Copyright 2005-2006 Shunsuke Sogame
Copyright 2005-2006, 2008-2015 Rene Rivera
Copyright 2003 Pavel Vozenilek and Robert Ramey -
Copyright 2010 Peter Schueller
Copyright 2006 Piotr Wyderski
Copyright 2002 Craig Henderson
Copyright 1997 Moscow Center for SPARC Technology
Copyright 2002 Indiana University. Authors Andrew Lumsdaine Lie-Quan Lee Jeremy G. Siek
Copyright 2001-2012, 2014 Thomas Bernard
Copyright 2002 Brad King and Douglas Gregor
Copyright 20142014 Matei David
Copyright 2014 Marco Guazzone (marco.guazzone@gmail.com) Distributed
Copyright 2005-2006 Michael Drexl
Copyright 2003-2007 Jonathan Turkanis
Copyright 2000-2002 David Abrahams Steve Cleary Beman Dawes Howard Hinnant & John Maddock
Copyright 2014 Ben Pope
Copyright 2007, 2011-2015 John Maddock. Distributed
Copyright 2003 Peter Dimov Distributed
Copyright 2002-2004, 2007-2010 Robert Ramey
Copyright 2009-2010 Tim Blechmann Distributed
Copyright 2009 Troy D. Straszheim
Copyright 2005 Eric Niebler Daniel Egloff. Distributed
Copyright 2005 Daniel Egloff Eric Niebler
Copyright 2003-2004 Jeremy B. Maitin-Shepard
Copyright 2002, 2007, 2014 Peter Dimov.&nbsp
Copyright 2008-2010 Gordon Woodhull Distributed
Copyright 2008-2010, 2012 Paul A. Bristow John Maddock
Copyright 2008 Roelof Naude
Copyright 2011 Francois Mauger
Copyright 2001 Indiana University. Author Jeremy G. Siek
Copyright 2012 Lucanus Simonson
Copyright 2003 Rational Discovery LLC. Distributed
Copyright 1999-2003 Dave Abrahams and Daniel Walker
Copyright 2009 Spirent Communications Inc
Copyright 2002-2006 Gennaro Prota
Copyright 2005-2011 Daniel James Distributed
Copyright 2007-2008 Joseph Gauterin
Copyright 2002 Ronald Garcia Jeremy Siek
Copyright 2013 Niall Douglas additions for colors and alignment
Copyright 2012 Adam D. Walling
Copyright 2000-2002 John R. Bandela
Copyright 2003 David Abrahams and Jeremy Siek
Copyright 1999-2004 Jeremiah Willcock
Copyright 2005 Peter Dimov For Boost Phoenix
Copyright 2004 Robert Ramey and Martin Ecker
Copyright 2013 Ankur Sinha
Copyright 2009-2015 Adam Wulkiewicz Lodz Poland
Copyright 2011 Thomas Heller Distributed
Copyright 2009 Trustees of Indiana University. Authors Andrew Lumsdaine Lie-Quan Lee Jeremy G. Siek Michael Hansen
Copyright 1997-2001 University of Notre Dame
Copyright 2001-2002 Jeremy G. Siek Andrew Lumsdaine Lie-Quan Lee
Copyright 2013 Maciej Piechotka Authors Maciej Piechotka
Copyright 2011 Paul A. Bristow To incorporate into Boost.Math
Copyright 2002 Brad King (brad.king@kitware.com)
Copyright 2005 Felix Hfling Guillaume Melquiond
Copyright 2000-2008 Fernando Luis Cacciola Carballal
Copyright 2008 Peter Kankowski
Copyright 2011 Christopher Jefferson
Copyright 2005-2008 Adobe Systems Inc
Copyright 2012-2013 Andreas Angelopoulos
Copyright 2013 Christopher Brown
Copyright 2006 David Abrahams -
Copyright 2002 Marc Wintermantel (wintermantel@even-ag.ch) ETH Zurich Center of Structure Technologies
Copyright 2001 Universite Joseph Fourier Grenoble. Author Francois Faure
Copyright 2003 Gustavo Guerra
Copyright 2001 Lie-Quan Lee
Copyright 2009-2014 Steven Ross
Copyright 2006 Trustees of Indiana University Authors Douglas Gregor and Jeremy Siek
Copyright 2002-2005 Andreas Huber Doenni
Copyright 2003-2014 Neil Groves
Copyright 2003, 2005-2006 David Abrahams Daniel Wallin
Copyright 2009-2015 Mateusz Loskot London UK
Copyright 2009 Brian Ravnsgaard and Kenneth Riddile
Copyright 2001, 2003 Samuel Krempp
Copyright 2000-2003 Gary Powell (powellg@amazon.com)
Copyright 2003 Thomas Becker
Copyright 2005 Daniel K. O
Copyright 2009-2011 Frederic Bron
Copyright 2014-2015 John Fletcher Distributed
Copyright 2006-2007 Matias Capeletto
Copyright 2013 Paul Bristow Distributed
Copyright 2007, 2015 John Maddock and Paul A. Bristow. Distributed
Copyright 2009 Arno Schoedl & Neil Groves
Copyright 2001 Mat Marcus Jesse Jones and Adobe Systems Inc
Copyright 2000, 2010 Dave Abrahams Steve Cleary Beman Dawes Howard Hinnant and John Maddock
Copyright 2012 Philipp Moeller
Copyright 2006-2013 Emil Dotchevski and Reverge Studios Inc
Copyright 2004-2005 Trustees of Indiana University Authors Andrew Lumsdaine Lie-Quan Lee Jeremy G. Siek Doug Gregor D. Kevin McGrath
Copyright 2003 Christof Meerwald
Copyright 2001-2002 Daryle Walker and Paul Moore
Copyright 2014 Franz Detro
Copyright 2000 Cadenza New Zealand Ltd
Copyright 2005-2014 Daniel James. Distributed
Copyright 2012 Phil Endecott Distributed
Copyright 2007-2008 David Jenkins
Copyright 2011 Dean Michael Berries
Copyright 2009 Sascha Ochsenknecht
Copyright 2008, 2010-2011 Christophe Henry henry UNDERSCORE christophe AT hotmail DOT com
Copyright 2009-2010 Paul A. Bristow & John Maddock
Copyright 2009 Gunter Winkler
Copyright 2003-2015 Joaquin M Lopez Munoz. Distributed
Copyright 2014-2015 Ahmed Charles
Copyright 2013 Eurodecision
Copyright 2013 Christian Shelton
Copyright 2001, 2003-2005 Hubert Holin
Copyright 2005 Jim Douglas
Copyright 2001-2015 Gennadiy Rozental
Copyright 2004-2005 Arkadiy Vertleyb Distributed
Copyright 2005 Keith MacDonald
Copyright 2001-2003 William E. Kempf
Copyright 2011 Kwan Ting Chan Based from bug report submitted by Xiaohan Wang
Copyright 2009 Paul A. Britow
Copyright 2007 Sebastian Ramacher
Copyright 2012 Denis Demidov
Copyright 2004-2006 Joao Abecasis
Copyright 2013 Pascal Germroth Distributed
Copyright 2001-2002 Chuck Allison and Jeremy Siek
Copyright 2008 Frank Mori Hess. Distributed
Copyright 2003, 2006 Bruno da Silva de Oliveira
Copyright 2006-2007 Daryle Walker Hubert Holin John Maddock
Copyright 2002 Lars Gullik Bjnnes <larsbj@lyx.org>
Copyright 2013 Eurodecision Authors Guillaume Pinot
Copyright 2002 Vahan Margaryan
Copyright 2003 Vesa Karvonen
Copyright 2001-2002 Bill Kempf
Copyright 2006 Prabhu Ramachandran
Copyright 1998-2000 Dr John Maddock
Copyright 2013-2014 Anton Bikineev
Copyright 2012 Michele Caini. Distributed
Copyright 2013 Christopher Kormanyos. Distributed
Copyright 2002-2003, 2005, 2007 Markus Schoepflin
Copyright 2006-2007 Roland Schwarz
Copyright 2010 Alfredo Correa
Copyright 2014 Marek Kurdej
Copyright 2010 Nuovation System Designs LLC
Copyright 2000 Jeremy Siek (jsiek@lsc.nd.edu)
Copyright 2002-2013 Thorsten Ottosen
Copyright 2006-2009 Dmitry Bufistov and Andrey Parfenov
Copyright 2002-2014 Christopher Kormanyos
Copyright 2010 Daniel Trebbien
Copyright 2006-2007 Boris Gubenko
Copyright 2005-2009 Jongsoo Park
Copyright 2015 Deniz Bahadir
Copyright 2003-2008 Tobias Schwinger
Copyright 2007 Frank Birbacher
Copyright 2002-2010 Fernando Cacciola
Copyright 2000 Steve Cleary Beman Dawes Aleksey Gurtovoy Howard Hinnant & John Maddock
Copyright 2002 Jan Langer
Copyright 2005 Niall Douglas
Copyright 2013 Tim Blechmann ARM Code by Phil Endecott based on other architectures
Copyright 2007-2015 Andrey Semashev
Copyright 2005 Eric Niebler Michael Gauckler. Distributed
Copyright 2014 Riccardo Marcangelo
Copyright 2002 Jeff Westfahl
Copyright 1997-2001 University of Notre Dame. Authors Andrew Lumsdaine Lie-Quan Lee Jeremy G. Siek
Copyright 2007, 2010 Paul A
Copyright 2002 H Lohninger TU Wein H.Lohninger Teach Me Data Analysis Springer-Verlag Berlin-New York-Tokyo
Copyright 2011 Colin Rundel
Copyright 2011 Ryan Molden
Copyright 2007-2009 Ben Hanson
Copyright 2014-2015 Andrzej Krzemienski
Copyright 2002-2007, 2009 Marcin Kalicinski
Copyright 2011-2015 Antony Polukhin
Copyright 2005-2006 Ion Gaztaaga and Peter Dimov
Copyright 2011 Jlio Hoffimann
Copyright 2012, 2015 Joel Falcou
Copyright 2005-2006 Alain Miniussi
Copyright 2003 Dave Abrahams and Thomas Becker
Copyright 2000-2010 Joerg Walter Mathias Koch Gunter Winkler David Bellot
Copyright 2005 Carl Barron. Distributed
Copyright 2004-2005, 2012 Eric Niebler Distributed
Copyright 2012 Flavio De Lorenzi (fdlorenzi@gmail.com)
Copyright 2000-2001 Stephen Cleary
Copyright 2010 Gaetano Mendola
Copyright 1999 Beman Dawes Dave Abrahams
Copyright 2012-2013 Karsten Ahnert Distributed
Copyright 2002-2009 Vladimir Prus and Robert Ramey
Copyright 2013 Andreas Hehn <hehn@phys.ethz.ch> ETH Zurich based on hellp-world
Copyright 1999-2006, 2009 David Abrahams
Copyright 2005 Ben Hutchings
Copyright 2005-2008 Dan Marsden
Copyright 2013 Sergue E. Leontiev
Copyright 2001-2002 Terje Slettebo
Copyright 2003 David Abrahams and Gottfried Ganssauge
Copyright 2000-2004 Joerg Walter Mathias Koch
Copyright 2004-2006 David Abrahams & Ralf W. Grosse-Kunsteve
Copyright 2002-2003 Toon Knapen Kresimir Fresl Joerg Walter
Copyright 2006 Tiago de Paula Peixoto <tiago@forked.de>
Copyright 2002-2005 Guillaume Melquiond
Copyright 1995-2001 Beman Dawes and Ullrich Koethe
Copyright 2007, 2011 Emil Dotchevski
Copyright 2005 Peder Holt Distributed
Copyright 2005 Daniel Egloff Eric Niebler. Distributed
Copyright 2005 Arkadiy Vertleyb Peder Holt
Copyright 1999-2001 David Abrahams Jeremy Siek Daryle Walker
Copyright 2011 Aaron Graham
Copyright 2000-2011 Joerg Walter Mathias Koch David Bellot
Copyright 2008-2015 Bruno Lalande Paris France
Copyright 2005 Jordan DeLong
Copyright 2008-2015 Vicente J. Botet Escriba
Copyright 2007 Alexey Baskakov
Copyright 2011 Brian O'Kennedy
Copyright 2003-2009 Joaquin M Lopez Munoz
Copyright 2006 Douglas Gregor scope
Copyright 1995-2010 Geodan Amsterdam the Netherlands
Copyright 2014 Jim Bell
Copyright 2008 Jurko Gospodnetic
Copyright 2010-2011 Bryce Lelbach
Copyright 2001-2003 Jaakko Jrvi
Copyright 2007, 2009-2010, 2012 John Maddock and Paul A. Bristow
Copyright 2014 Boris Rasin
Copyright 2000-2003 Brian McNamara and Yannis Smaragdakis
Copyright 2010 Nicolas Lelong
Copyright 2008-2009 Francois Barel
Copyright 2001 University of Notre Dame. Author Andrew Janiszewski Jeremy G. Siek
Copyright 2008-2011 Hartmut Kaiser os
Copyright 2003-2005 Rani Sharoni
Copyright 2002-2014 Robert Ramey -
Copyright 1997-2001 University of Notre Dame. Authors Lie-Quan Lee Jeremy Siek
Copyright 1992-2004 P.J. Plauger
Copyright 2013 Jakob Lykke Andersen University of Southern Denmark (jlandersen@imada.sdu.dk)
Copyright 2000-2009 Joerg Walter Mathias Koch Gunter Winkler
Copyright 2000-2002 Darin Adler
Copyright 2001 Ralf W. Grosse-Kunstleve. Distributed
Copyright 2007-2010 jmc
Copyright 2010 Daniel Wallin Eric Niebler. Distributed
Copyright 2011 Simon West
Copyright 2011 Andrew Ross
Copyright 2002-2003 Eric Friedman Itay Maman
Copyright 2009-2011 Frederic Bron Robert Stewart Steven Watanabe & Roman Perepelitsa
Copyright 2010 Jeffrey Hellrung. Distributed
Copyright 2012 David Doria Authors David Doria
Copyright 2004 Jeremy Siek <jsiek@cs.indiana.edu>
Copyright 2010 Lars Kielhorn
Copyright 2009 Erik Bryan
Copyright 2006-2008 Thorsten Ottosen Neil Groves
Copyright 2000 Steve Cleary & John Maddock
Copyright 2000-2006 David Abrahams and Thomas Becker
Copyright 2007 University of Karlsruhe Authors Andrew Lumsdaine Lie-Quan Lee Jeremy G. Siek Douglas Gregor Jens Mueller













boost version 1.72.0
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>


Boost Software License - Version 1.0 - August 17th, 2003

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or organization
obtaining a copy of the software and accompanying documentation covered by
this license (the "Software") to use, reproduce, display, distribute,
execute, and transmit the Software, and to prepare derivative works of the
Software, and to permit third-parties to whom the Software is furnished to
do so, all subject to the following:

The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement, including
the above license grant, this restriction and the following disclaimer,
must be included in all copies of the Software, in whole or in part, and
all derivative works of the Software, unless such copies or derivative
works are solely in the form of machine-executable object code generated by
a source language processor.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT
SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

>>>> MIT
http_parser.c is based on src/http/ngx_http_parse.c from NGINX copyright
Igor Sysoev.

Additional changes are licensed under the same terms as NGINX and
copyright Joyent, Inc. and other Node contributors. All rights reserved.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to
deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the
rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or
sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS
IN THE SOFTWARE. 

>>>> zlib 1.2.11
/* zlib.h -- interface of the 'zlib' general purpose compression library
  version 1.2.11, January 15th, 2017

  Copyright (C) 1995-2017 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler

  This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied
  warranty.  In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages
  arising from the use of this software.

  Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose,
  including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it
  freely, subject to the following restrictions:

  1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not
     claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software
     in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be
     appreciated but is not required.
  2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be
     misrepresented as being the original software.
  3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.

  Jean-loup Gailly        Mark Adler
  jloup@gzip.org          madler@alumni.caltech.edu


  The data format used by the zlib library is described by RFCs (Request for
  Comments) 1950 to 1952 in the files http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1950
  (zlib format), rfc1951 (deflate format) and rfc1952 (gzip format).
*/

>>>> zlib gpl with exception
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--                      ZLib for Ada thick binding.                         --
--                                                                          --
--              Copyright (C) 2002-2004 Dmitriy Anisimkov                   --
--                                                                          --
--  This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify    --
--  it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by    --
--  the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at   --
--  your option) any later version.                                         --
--                                                                          --
--  This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but     --
--  WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of              --
--  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU       --
--  General Public License for more details.                                --
--                                                                          --
--  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License       --
--  along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, --
--  Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.          --
--                                                                          --
--  As a special exception, if other files instantiate generics from this   --
--  unit, or you link this unit with other files to produce an executable,  --
--  this  unit  does not  by itself cause  the resulting executable to be   --
--  covered by the GNU General Public License. This exception does not      --
--  however invalidate any other reasons why the executable file  might be  --
--  covered by the  GNU Public License.                                     --
------------------------------------------------------------------------------

>>> Apache v2.0
############################################################################                                                                                     
#   Â© 2012,2014 Advanced Micro Devices, Inc. All rights reserved.                                     
#                                                                                    
#   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");   
#   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.                 
#   You may obtain a copy of the License at                                          
#                                                                                    
#       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0                      
#                                                                                    
#   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software              
#   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,              
#   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.         
#   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and              
#   limitations under the License.                                                   

############################################################################               

>>>> jquery 
/*!
 * jQuery JavaScript Library v3.1.0
 * https://jquery.com/
 *
 * Includes Sizzle.js
 * https://sizzlejs.com/
 *
 * Copyright jQuery Foundation and other contributors
 * Released under the MIT license
 * https://jquery.org/license
 *
 * Date: 2016-07-07T21:44Z
 */


Copyright 2016-2017 Francisco Jose Tapia (fjtapia@gmail.com
Copyright 2009-2016 &nbsp Vladimir Batov
Copyright 2011 Jlio Hoffimann
Copyright 2018-2019 Mike Dev
Copyright 2013 Juan V. Puertos G-Cluster Christian Henning 
Copyright 1999, 2001-2006 Dave Abrahams
Copyright 2008 Federico J. Fernandez
Copyright 1999, 2001 Nicolai M. Josuttis
Copyright (c) 2014 Paul Fultz II holder.
Copyright 2012 Chung-Lin Wen Davide Anastasia 
Copyright 2004-2005 Arkadiy Vertleyb Peder Holt
Copyright 2016 Chris Glover
Copyright 2008 Rep Invariant Systems Inc. (info@repinvariant.com)
Copyright 2019. Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2010, 2014 Athanasios Iliopoulos
Copyright 2003 Ross Smith
Copyright (c) 2009-2012 Mateusz Loskot (mateusz@loskot.net) London UK 
Copyright 2007 Alexandre Courpron
Copyright 2002 Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
Copyright 2007 Timmo Stange
Copyright (c) 2018 Louis Dionne Antony Polukhin 
Copyright 2003 Sam Nabialek
Copyright 2019 A N Other
Copyright 2011 Takaya Saito
Copyright 2001-2003 Toon Knapen
Copyright 2010 Eric Jourdanneau Joel Falcou
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II capture.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2014-2019 Raffi Enficiaud
Copyright 2014-2019 Glen Joseph Fernandes
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II apply.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2009 Trustees of Indiana University Authors Jeremiah J. Willcock Andrew Lumsdaine
Copyright 2007-2019 Andrey Semashev
Copyright 2013 Joaquim Duran
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II construct.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2003, 2009 Pavel Baranov
Copyright 2010 Dean Michael Berris Distributed
Copyright 2013, 2018 Alain Miniussi <alain.miniussi@oca.eu>
Copyright 2005 Daniel Egloff. Distributed
Copyright 2010 Thomas Claveirole
Copyright 2005 John Maddock & Thorsten Ottosen
Copyright 2017 Shreyans Doshi
Copyright  2001-2009 Aleksey Gurtovoy and David Abrahams Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 1998-2019 Joel de Guzman
Copyright 2018 Kohei Takahsahi
Copyright 2012 Lee Hodgkinson
Copyright 2012 IBM Corp
Copyright 2005-2013 Ion Gaztanaga Distributed
Copyright 2016 Mikhail Maximov vigorous.activity at gmail dot com
Copyright 2008-2009 Ben Hanson os
Copyright 1999-2004, 2011, 2013 Jeremiah Willcock
Copyright 2009 Dustin Spicuzza
Copyright 2006-2007, 2011, 2013-2014 Paul Bristow
Copyright 2004-2014 boost
Copyright 2012 Christoph Koke
Copyright 2001-2012 Hartmut Kaiser Distributed
Copyright 2007-2012 Christian Henning Lubomir Bourdev
Copyright 2013-2019 Oracle and or its affiliates
Copyright 2013 &nbsp Edward Diener
Copyright 2015 Nuxi https nuxi.nl
Copyright 2012 Chung-Lin Wen 
Copyright 2005 Voipster Indrek dot Juhani at voipster dot com
Copyright 2007 David Gleich
Copyright 2005, 2007-2008 Aaron Windsor
Copyright 2010-2015 Andrii Sydorchuk
Copyright 2008, 2010-2011, 2017 Christophe Henry
Copyright (c) 2015 Paul Fultz II compressed
Copyright 1999-2003 Jaakko Jarvi (jaakko.jarvi@cs.utu.fi)
Copyright 2016, 2018 Oracle and or its affiliates. Contributed and or modified by Vissarion Fysikopoulos on behalf of Oracle
Copyright 2018 Paul Fultz II Distributed
Copyright 2009 Tor Brede Vekterli
Copyright 2016 Thomas Kent
Copyright 2010 Matthias Walter (xammy@xammy.homelinux.net)
Copyright 2010 Gevorg Voskanyan
Copyright 2001-2003 Dan Nuffer
Copyright 2001-2007, 2011-2012 Joel de Guzman Dan Marsden Tobias Schwinger
Copyright 2016-2017 Alexander Zaitsev Distributed
Copyright 2004-2012 Eric Niebler. Distributed
copyright 2002-2019 John Maddock and Christopher Kormanyos
Copyright 2000-2006 Jeremy Siek David Abrahams
Copyright 2008-2019 Bruno Lalande Paris France
Copyright 2015 Robin Eckert
Copyright 2003 Roland Richter
Copyright 2016-2019 Klemens D. Morgenstern Hans Dembinski
Copyright (c) 2014 Paul Fultz II pp.
Copyright 2007 Anthony Williams. Distributed
Copyright 2018 Alexander Grund
Copyright 1995-2017 Jean-loup Gailly
Copyright (C) 2009 Andreas Haberstroh
Copyright 2003 Jaap Suter
Copyright 2009-2011, 2014-2015 LRI UMR
Copyright 2005, 2010 Daniel Wallin David Abrahams
Copyright 2011 Matthias Born
Copyright 2015, 2017 Paul Fultz II reverse
Copyright 2005-2008 Matthias Troyer
Copyright 2015-2016 Klemens D. Morgenstern Distributed
Copyright 1994-2017 Beman Dawes
Copyright 2010 W.P. McNeill
Copyright Dezide Aps 2003-2004
Copyright 2019 Hans Dembinski Henry Schreiner
Copyright 2015 Charly Chevalier
Copyright 2008, 2014, 2016 Jorge Lodos
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II if.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2003 Institute of Transport Railway Construction and Operation University of Hanover Germany
Copyright 2009-2016 Mario Mulansky
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II sequence.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2015 Paul Fultz II decorate
Copyright 2009-2010 Intel Corp license banner --
Copyright 2015 Gregor de Cillia
Copyright 2002, 2004 Herv&eacute Br&ouml nnimann Polytechnic University
Copyright 2016-2017 Joaqun M Lpez Muoz. Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2004 Ralf Mattethat
Copyright 2005-2007 &nbsp Tobias Schwinger
Copyright 2004 Brian Ravnsgaard Riis license Boost Software License
Copyright 2010, 2012-2015, 2017-2018 Vicente Botet
Copyright 2002-2003 Herv Brnnimann Guillaume Melquiond Sylvain Pion
Copyright 2015 Robin Eckert Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2008-2012 Simonson Lucanus
Copyright 2013 Alex Korobka
Copyright 1986 International Organization for Standardization
Copyright 2003, 2018-2019 Peter Dimov Distributed
Copyright 2017 Levon Tarakchyan
Copyright 2010 Georg Fritzsche
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II returns.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2003, 2005 David Abrahams Jeremy Siek Thomas Witt
Copyright 2009 David Abrahams Vicente Botet
Copyright 2011 Paul A. Bristow comments
Copyright 2008-2010 Niels Dekker
Copyright 2002 R.W. Grosse-Kunstleve
Copyright 2000-2003 Dave Abrahams Steve Cleary Beman Dawes Howard Hinnant & John Maddock
Copyright 2015 Mario Lang
Copyright 2012, 2014 Pieter Bastiaan Ober
Copyright 2010 Head Geek
Copyright 2019 Olzhas Zhumabek <anonymous.from.applecity@gmail.com>
copyright 2005 2006 2007 Douglas Gregor Matthias Troyer Trustees of Indiana University
Copyright 2005 David Abrahams and Aleksey Gurtovoy. Distributed
Copyright 2010-2011 Michael Caisse
Copyright 2002 Peter Dimov and David Abrahams
Copyright 2000-2013 Joerg Walter Mathias Koch. David Bellot
Copyright 2006-2010, 2012 Juergen Hunold
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II pack.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright Beman Dawes and Robert Stewart 2011
Copyright 2011-2013 Mario Mulansky Distributed
Copyright 2001 Alexander Peslyak and it is hereby released to the general public
Copyright 2005-2006 Daniel Egloff Olivier Gygi. Distributed
Copyright 2006 Alexander Nasonov & Paul A. Bristow
Copyright 2003-2009 Tobias Schwinger
Copyright 2007 Nikolay Mladenov
copyright 2001-2007 Beman Dawes Vesa Karvonen John Maddock
Copyright 2002 Indiana University
Copyright 2008 Gautam Sewani
Copyright 2013 Piotr Wygocki
Copyright 2005-2006 Danny Havenith
Copyright 2001 Indiana University Author Jeremy G. Siek
Copyright 2010-2012 Kenneth Riddile Christian Henning
Copyright 2005 Jeremy G. Siek Authors Jeremy G. Siek
Copyright 2010 Just Software Solutions Ltd
Copyright 2008 David Jenkins. Distributed
Copyright 2018 Oxford Nanopore Technologies
Copyright 2002-2003 Eric Friedman
Copyright 2011 ACM
Copyright 2012 Google Inc
Copyright 2011 Stefan Seefeld. Distributed
Copyright (c) 2009-2018 Ion Gazta u00F1aga 
Copyright 2001-2002 Joel de Guzman MT code
Copyright 2008 Lubomir Bourdev Hailin Jin
Copyright (c) 2012 Martin Raspaud 
Copyright 2014 Paul Fultz II mutable
Copyright 2007 Christoper Kohlhoff
Copyright 2005 Matthias Troyer and Dave Abrahams
Copyright 2004 Stefan Slapeta
Copyright 2001 Eric Ford
Copyright 2013-2015 Kyle Lutz <kyle.r.lutz@gmail.com>
Copyright 2012 Michele Caini
Copyright 2016 Karolin Varner
Copyright 2017-2018 James E. King III Distributed
Copyright 2004-2006 Olaf Krzikalla
Copyright 2007-2008 CodeRage LLC Author Jonathan Turkanis Contact turkanis at coderage dot com
Copyright 2016 Jason Rhinelander <jason@imaginary.ca>
Copyright 2014 Paul Fultz II fix
Copyright 2015-2017 Paul Fultz II unpack
Copyright 2001-2015 Hartmut Kaiser
copyright 2000 Steve Cleary Beman Dawes Howard Hinnant &amp John Maddock
Copyright 2015 Boost.Test team Distributed
Copyright 2006 Stephan Diederich
Copyright 2003-2019 Christopher M. Kohlhoff
Copyright (c) 2014 Paul Fultz II remove
Copyright 2005 troy
Copyright (c) 2016 MATHIEU CORNIC 
Copyright (c) 2002 Lars Gullik Bjnnes <larsbj@lyx.org> 
Copyright 2002-2010 Andreas Huber Doenni Distributed
Copyright 2011 Paul A. Bristow - filename changes for boost-trunk
Copyright 2010 Dean Michael Berris. Instead of using the potentially dangrous tempnam function that's part of the C standard library on Unix Linux we
Copyright 2003-2004 Neil Groves & Thorsten Ottosen & Pavol Droba
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II test.hpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2007 Paul
Copyright 2009 Matthias Vallentin
Copyright (c) 2012 Paul Fultz II delgate.
Copyright 2007 Baruch Zilber
Copyright 2014-2015, 2024 John Fletcher
Copyright 2016-2019 Nikita Kniazev
Copyright 2014-2019 Antony Polukhin antoshkka at gmail dot com
Copyright 2003 David Abrahams and Nikolay Mladenov
Copyright 2015, 2017 Paul Fultz II flip
Copyright 2013 Thomas Sailer
Copyright 2006-2018 Emil Dotchevski and Reverge Studios Inc
Copyright 2015 Paul Fultz II capture
Copyright 2004 Trustees of Indiana University Authors Andrew Lumsdaine Lie-Quan Lee Jeremy G. Siek Douglas Gregor
(C) COPYRIGHT 2018 Reimar Dffinger Based on zstd
Copyright 2008 Milan Svoboda
Copyright 1997-2001 University of Notre Dame. Authors Lie-Quan Lee
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II static.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2015 Ion Gaztaaga Distributed under the http www.boost.org LICENSE
Copyright 2005 Pearson Education Inc. Reprinted with
Copyright 2001-2007 Hartmut Kaiser Revised
Copyright 2013 Paul A. Bristow. Added some Quickbook snippet markers
Copyright 2008 Runar Undheim Robert Ramey & John Maddock
Copyright 2002-2017 Daniel Frey
Copyright 2003-2005 Thorsten Ottosen & Larry Evans
Copyright 2013 Bjorn Roald
Copyright 2000-2006 Stephen Cleary
Copyright 1999 Beman Dawes and Daryle Walker
Copyright 2012-2013 Pierre Talbot
Copyright 2007 Technical University of Catalonia 
Copyright 2002 John Maddock and Dave Abrahams
Copyright 2017 Valentin Noah Hartmann
Copyright 2012-2013 Fernando Vilas
Copyright 2010 Nuovation System Designs LLC Grant Erickson <gerickson@nuovations.com>
Copyright 2003 Rational Discovery LLC Distributed
Copyright 2006-2007, 2009-2010, 2012 John Maddock and Paul A. Bristow
Copyright 2001-2004 Peter Dimov and Multi Media Ltd
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II repeat.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2013, 2017 Ruslan Baratov
Copyright 2007-2012 Joachim Faulhaber
Copyright 2002 William E. Kempf Distributed
Copyright 2012 Beman Daves
Copyright 2015-2019 Klemens D. Morgenstern
Copyright 2003-2011, 2014 LASMEA UMR
Copyright 2014 Paul Fultz II lazy
Copyright 2007 Stanford University Authors David Gleich
Copyright 2014 Marco Guazzone (marco.guazzone@gmail.com)
Copyright 2012 Paul Fultz II partial
Copyright 2009-2010 Datasim Education BV
Copyright 2004 Jonathan Graehl
Copyright 2018 Yaghyavardhan Singh Khangarot Hyderabad India
Copyright 2016 Paul Fultz II limit
Copyright 2006-2008 Anthony Williams Distributed
Copyright 2006 Thorsten Ottosen. Distributed
Copyright 2006 Tomas Puverle
Copyright 2007-2008 Vladimir Prus David Abrahams Michael Stevens Hartmut Kaiser Ion Gaztanaga
Copyright 2010 Josh Wilson
Copyright 2009-2012 Vicente J.Botet Escriba
Copyright 2014 Paul Fultz II proj
Copyright 2004-2011 Michael Stevens David Bellot
Copyright 2014-2016 Paul Fultz II result
Copyright 2013 Paul A. Bristow Doxygen comments changed
Copyright 2019 Hans Dembinski Distributed
Copyright 2015 Gonzalo Brito Gadeschi
Copyright 2008, 2017-2019 James E. King III
(C) Copyright 2018 Mario Suvajac 
Copyright 2000 Steve Cleary Beman Dawes Howard Hinnant and John Maddock
Copyright 2010 Matthias Walter
copyright 2006-2019 Nikhar Agrawal Anton Bikineev Paul A. Bristow Marco Guazzone Christopher Kormanyos Hubert Holin Bruno Lalande John Maddock Jeremy Murphy Matthew Pulver Johan Rde Gautam Sewani Benjamin Sobotta Nicholas Thompson Thijs van den Berg Daryle Walker and Xiaogang Zhang
Copyright 2001 Vladimir Prus <ghost@cs.msu.su> Authors Andrew Lumsdaine Lie-Quan Lee Jeremy G. Siek Douglas Gregor
Copyright 2014-2015 NumScale SAS
Copyright 2008 2009 John Maddock Paul A. Bristow and M.A. 
Copyright &copy 2008 Beman Dawes Rene Rivera
Copyright 2004 The Trustees of Indiana University Authors Andrew Lumsdaine Lie-Quan Lee Jeremy G. Siek
Copyright 2008, 2010 Intel Corp
Copyright 2002-2003 Guillaume Melquiond Sylvain Pion
Copyright 2009-2016 Karsten Ahnert
Copyright 2011-2012 Vicente J.Botet Escriba. Distributed
Copyright 2003 Dan Watkins
Copyright 2008 CodeRage LLC
Copyright 2018-2019 Peter Dimov Hans Dembinski
Copyright 2014, 2016 Lee Clagett
Copyright 2000-2005 Steve Cleary Beman Dawes Howard Hinnant & John Maddock
Copyright 2009 Yuriy Krasnoschek
Copyright 2009 Daniel Frey and Robert Ramey
Copyright 2002-2003 Herv Brnnimann 
(C) Copyright Boris Rasin and Antony Polukhin 2014-2019
Copyright 2011 Simon West. Distributed
Copyright 2006-2011 Andy Tompkins
Copyright 2011 Jan Frederick Eick
Copyright 2010, 2013, 2017-2019 Mateusz Loskot
Copyright 2008 Lubomir Bourdev and Hailin Jin
Copyright 2005 Trustees of Indiana University Authors Andrew Lumsdaine Douglas Gregor
Copyright (c) 2002 by Peter Simons <simons@cryp.to> 
Copyright 2002 Andrei Alexandrescu
Copyright 1997-2017 Dimitri van Heesch
Copyright 2015-2018 Oracle and or its affiliates. Contributed and or modified by Vissarion Fysikopoulos on behalf of Oracle Contributed and or modified by Adam Wulkiewicz on behalf of Oracle
Copyright 2010-2011 David Bellot
Copyright 2011-2013 Andrew Hundt
Copyright 2015 Markus J. Weber
Copyright 2010 Paul A. Bristow added Doxygen comments
Copyright 2016 Brian Kuhl
Copyright 2008-2010 Joseph Gauterin Niels Dekker
Copyright 2012 K R Walker
Copyright 2011-2019 Antony Polukhin
Copyright 3350, 3600, 3799, 6974 issues References <379990.36007.qm@web33507.mail.mud.yahoo.com>
copyright 2002 2003 2004 2005 Joel de Guzman David Abrahams
Copyright (c) 2018 Dmitry Arkhipov 
Copyright 2014 Erik Erlandson
Copyright 2008-2016 Tim Blechmann
Copyright 2001, 2004 Doug Gregor
Copyright 2006 Hubert Holin and John Maddock. Distributed
Copyright 2013-2014 Agustin Berge
Copyright 2002, 2004 Herve Bronnimann
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II infix.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 1999 Kevlin Henney and Dave Abrahams
Copyright 2011-2012 Nathan Ridge
Copyright 2005 to
Copyright 2010 Igor R
Copyright 2011 Paul A. Bristow and Thomas Mang. Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2014 MetaScale SAS
Copyright 2008-2012 Daniel Walker Eric Niebler Michel Morin
Copyright 2013 Christian Henning Distributed
Copyright 2012, 2014 Advanced Micro Devices Inc
Copyright 2002-2004, 2007-2010, 2012, 2014-2015, 2017-2019 Robert Ramey
Copyright 2013-2018 Boost.Test team
Copyright 2010 Olaf Peter
Copyright 2010-2012 Thomas Mang
Copyright 2006 Stephen Nutt
Copyright 2000-2006 Jens Maurer
Copyright 2005 Vladimur Prus
Copyright 2005 David Abrahams Matthias Troyer Michael Gauckler
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II protect.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2003, 2006 Gottfried Ganauge
Copyright 2013 Pascal Germroth
Copyright 2014 Benoit Dequidt <benoit.dequidt@gmail.com>
Copyright 2003 Giovanni Bajo Copyrigh
Copyright 2000 John Maddock (john@johnmaddock.co.uk)
Copyright 2013-2019 Oracle and or its affiliates. Contributed and or modified by Adam Wulkiewicz on behalf of Oracle
Copyright 2019 Rene Rivera REM 
Copyright 2002-2004 Martin Wille
Copyright 1997-2001 University of Notre Dame. Authors Jeremy G. Siek Andrew Lumsdaine Lie-Quan Lee
Copyright 2001, 2003 Vesa Karvonen
Copyright 2002-2003 David Moore William E. Kempf
Copyright 2008 Gunter Winkler <guwi17@gmx.de> Thanks to Tiago Requeijo for providing
Copyright (c) 2008-2017 Emil Dotchevski and Reverge Studios Inc. NL NL Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2016-2017 Alexander Zaitsev <zamazan4ik@gmail.by>
Copyright 2010 Ilya Murav'jov
Copyright 2012 David Bailey
Copyright 2003, 2005-2019 Rene Rivera
Copyright 2010 Ignacy Gawedzki
Copyright (c) 2015 Paul Fultz II and.
Copyright (c) 2015 Paul Fultz II make.
Copyright 2001 Ronald Garcia Indiana University (garcia@osl.iu.edu) Andrew Lumsdaine Indiana University (lums@osl.iu.edu)
Copyright 2018 Mateusz Loskot &lt mateusz@loskot.net&gt 
Copyright 2010-2011 Jeroen Habraken
Copyright 2016-2017 Mikhail Maximov
Copyright 2001-2002 Hubert Holin and Daryle Walker
Copyright 2019 Henry Schreiner
Copyright 2004-2009 Robert Ramey Martin Ecker and Takatoshi Kondo
copyright 2009-2015 Karsten Ahnert and Mario Mulansky
Copyright 2013 Petr Machata Red Hat Inc
Copyright 2012 Daryle Walker Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright (c) 2015 Paul Fultz II constexpr
Copyright 2011 The Dojo Foundation Released
Copyright 2009 Eric Moyer -
Copyright (c) 2016 Jeffrey E. Trull Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2000-2001 Gary Powell (gary.powell@sierra.com)
Copyright 2002-2004 David Abrahams and Aleksey Gurtovoy
Copyright 2016 Klemens D. Morgenstern klemens.morgenstern at gmx dot net
Copyright 2011-2015 Akira Takahashi
Copyright 2009 Jean-Francois Ostiguy
Copyright 2001, 2004-2005, 2011-2013 Daryle Walker. Distributed
Copyright 2012-2013 Rajeev Singh
Copyright Beman Dawes&nbsp 2001 2011
Copyright 2013 Andrey
Copyright 2017 Tom Westerhout font fixes to support Sphinx
Copyright 2009 Michael Hansen
Copyright 2009 Nasos Iliopoulos Gunter Winkler
Copyright 2016-2017 Paul Fultz II in.cpp Distributed
Copyright 2007-2019 Barend Gehrels Amsterdam the Netherlands
Copyright 2013 John Maddock Antony Polukhin
Copyright 2012 Paul A. Bristow with new tests
Copyright (c) 2014 Paul Fultz II forward.
Copyright 2001 Boost.org
Copyright (C) 2017 Daniela Engert Use modification and distribution is subject to the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2018 Paul Fultz II REM Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2000-2011 Joerg Walter Mathias Koch Gunter Winkler David Bellot
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II final
Copyright 2017 think-cell GmbH
Copyright 2019 Sam Day Distributed
Copyright (C) 2001 Andreas Scherer Jeremy Siek Lie-Quan Lee and Andrew Lumsdaine 
Copyright 2016 Ashish Sadanandan
Copyright 2011 Roji Philip
Copyright 2013-2014 Damien Buhl
Copyright 2008 Michael Marcin
Copyright 2004 Robert Ramey Indiana University (garcia@osl.iu.edu) Andrew Lumsdaine Indiana University (lums@osl.iu.edu)
Copyright 2015-2018 Barrett Adair
Copyright 2009-2012 Mateusz Loskot London UK. London UK
Copyright 2004-2007 Daniel Wallin
Copyright 2007-2010, 2019 Frank Mori Hess
Copyright 2014 Jessica Hamilton
Copyright 2015 Paul Fultz II fold
Copyright 2017 Alain Miniussi & Vincent Chabannes
Copyright 2010 Eric Jourdanneau Joel Falcou Distributed
Copyright 2012 Leo Goodstadt
Copyright 2012 Authors David Doria
Copyright 2018-2019 Mike Dev Distributed
Copyright 2011, 2013-2014 Jamboree
Copyright (c) 2009-2017 Mateusz Loskot <mateusz@loskot.net> London UK. 
Copyright (c) 2016 Paul Fultz II example.
Copyright 2016 Raffi Enficiaud. Distributed
Copyright 2018 Andrzej Krzemieski
Copyright 1996-1999 Silicon Graphics Computer Systems Inc
Copyright 2015-2016 Jeremy Murphy
Copyright 2012 Benjamin Schindler
Copyright 2017 Austin J. Beer
 -- &copy Copyright 2008
Copyright 2011 AUTHORS.txt
Copyright 2001 Jeremy Siek Douglas Gregor Brian Osman
Copyright 2010 Peter Schueller
Copyright 2006 Piotr Wyderski
Copyright 2015-2019 Hans Dembinski
Copyright 2002, 2004-2010, 2012 Trustees of Indiana University
Copyright 2002 Brad King and Douglas Gregor
Copyright 2014 Paul Fultz II pack
Copyright 2000-2002 David Abrahams Steve Cleary Beman Dawes Howard Hinnant & John Maddock
Copyright 2014 Ben Pope
Copyright 2014 Bill Gallafent
Copyright 2015-2018 Jakub Szuppe <j.szuppe@gmail.com>
Copyright 2005 Daniel Egloff Eric Niebler
Copyright 2014, 2016-2017 Paul Fultz II is
Copyright 2008-2010 Gordon Woodhull Distributed
Copyright (c) 2018 Justinas V. Daugmaudis 
Copyright 2008 Roelof Naude
Copyright 2012 Sylwester Arabas
Copyright 2001 Indiana University. Author Jeremy G. Siek
Copyright 2016-2017 Klemens David Morgenstern
Copyright 2013-2015 Kyle Lutz
Copyright 2016 Frank Hein maxence business consulting gmbh
Copyright 2019 Sam Day
Copyright 1999-2003 Dave Abrahams and Daniel Walker
Copyright 2009 Spirent Communications Inc
Copyright 2002 Ronald Garcia Jeremy Siek
Copyright 2012 Adam D. Walling
Copyright 2000-2002 John R. Bandela
Copyright 2005 Peter Dimov For Boost Phoenix
Copyright 2000-2002 Jeremy Siek Lie-Quan Lee and Andrew Lumsdaine
Copyright 2008-2019 Lorenzo Caminiti Distributed
Copyright 2016 Sergey Nizovtsev
Copyright 2011 Thomas Heller Distributed
Copyright 1997-2001 University of Notre Dame
Copyright 2013 Maciej Piechotka Authors Maciej Piechotka
Copyright 2002 Brad King (brad.king@kitware.com)
Copyright 2004-2014 Eric Niebler
Copyright 2011 Christopher Jefferson
Copyright 2013 Christopher Brown
Copyright 2006 David Abrahams -
Copyright 2001 Universite Joseph Fourier Grenoble. Author Francois Faure
Copyright 2003 Gustavo Guerra
Copyright 2011-2015 Vicente J. Botet Escriba. Distributed
Copyright 2001-2003 Jaakko J
Copyright 2009-2014 Steven Ross
Copyright 2015 Kyle Lutz Distributed
Copyright 2009 Brian Ravnsgaard and Kenneth Riddile
Copyright 2016-2017 John Z. Maddock
Copyright 2000-2003 Gary Powell (powellg@amazon.com)
Copyright 2016 Bogumi Chojnowski 
Copyright 2017 Alain Miniussi & Steffen Hirschmann
Copyright 2016 Norbert Wenzel
Copyright 2017 Samuli-Petrus Korhonen
Copyright 2018 Yi Ji
Copyright 2009-2011 Frederic Bron
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II match.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright (c) 2018 Emil Dotchevski. Distributed under the 
Copyright 2018 Yaghyavardhan Singh Khangarot Hyderabad India. Contributed and or modified by Yaghyavardhan Singh Khangarot as part of Google Summer of Code
Copyright 2009 Arno Schoedl & Neil Groves
Copyright (c) 2014 Grav 
Copyright 2012 Philipp Moeller
Copyright 2018-2019 Peter Dimov and is distributed
Copyright 2015-2016 Jeremy William Murphy
Copyright 2004-2005 Trustees of Indiana University Authors Andrew Lumsdaine Lie-Quan Lee Jeremy G. Siek Doug Gregor D. Kevin McGrath
Copyright 2003 Christof Meerwald
Copyright 2014 Franz Detro
Copyright 2015 Paul Fultz II decay
COPYRIGHT (17 U.S.C. SECTION 
Copyright 2012 Phil Endecott Distributed
Copyright 2003-2004, 2006, 2008 Gerald I. Evenden
Copyright 2017 Paul Fultz II requirements.txt Distributed
Copyright 2007-2008 David Jenkins
Copyright 2016-2017 Oracle and or its affiliates. Contributed and or modified by Vissarion Fisikopoulos on behalf of Oracle
Copyright 2007-2012 Christian Henning Andreas Pokorny Lubomir Bourdev
Copyright 2009 Sascha Ochsenknecht
Copyright 2009-2010 Paul A. Bristow & John Maddock
Copyright 2018 Oracle and or its affiliates Contributed and or modified by Vissarion Fysikopoulos on behalf of Oracle
Copyright 2014-2015 Ahmed Charles
Copyright 2011-2019 Renato Tegon Forti Antony Polukhin
Copyright 2013 Christian Shelton
Copyright 2001, 2003-2005 Hubert Holin
Copyright 2005 Jim Douglas
Copyright 2004-2005 Arkadiy Vertleyb Distributed
Copyright 2001-2003 Samuel Krempp
Copyright 2011, 2013 Marshall Clow Distributed
Copyright 2009 Paul A. Britow
Copyright 2007 Sebastian Ramacher
Copyright 2003-2013 Jan Gaspar
Copyright 2004-2006 Joao Abecasis
Copyright 2006-2007 &nbsp Matias Capeletto
Copyright 2013 Christian Henning and Juan V. Puertos 
Copyright 2008-2018 Oliver Kowalke
Copyright 2014 Paul Fultz II arg
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II decay.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2013 Eurodecision Authors Guillaume Pinot
(C) Copyright 2018 Mario Suvajac Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2012 Michele Caini. Distributed
Copyright 2002-2003, 2005, 2007 Markus Schoepflin
Copyright 2010 Alfredo Correa
Copyright 2014 Marek Kurdej
Copyright 2012 Olivier Tournaire Christian Henning 
Copyright 2000-2006, 2011-2012 Daryle Walker
Copyright 2016-2017 Paul Fultz II pointfree.cpp Distributed
Copyright 2000 Jeremy Siek (jsiek@lsc.nd.edu)
Copyright 2003-2004 Douglas Gregor Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2006-2009 Dmitry Bufistov and Andrey Parfenov
Copyright 2010-2012 Jim Bosch & Ankit Daftery
Copyright 2010 Daniel Trebbien
Copyright 1998-2019 John Maddock
Copyright 2015 Deniz Bahadir
Copyright 2000 Steve Cleary Beman Dawes Aleksey Gurtovoy Howard Hinnant & John Maddock
Copyright 2002 Jan Langer
Copyright 2013 Tim Blechmann ARM Code by Phil Endecott based on other architectures
Copyright 2005 Eric Niebler Michael Gauckler. Distributed
Copyright 2014 Riccardo Marcangelo
Copyright 2002 Jeff Westfahl
Copyright 2005, 2013-2019 Niall Douglas
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II virtual
Copyright 2007, 2010 Paul A
Copyright 2011 Colin Rundel
Copyright 2007-2009 Ben Hanson
Copyright 2010-2019 Edward Diener
Copyright 2014 Tomoki Imai
Copyright (C) 2009 Vladimir Prus REM REM Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2015 Paul Fultz II combine
Copyright 2006 John Maddock Paul A. Bristow and Xiaogang Zhang. 
Copyright 2018 Nick Thompson. Distributed
Copyright 2008, 2010-2011, 2017 Christophe Henry henry UNDERSCORE christophe AT hotmail DOT com
Copyright 2003 Dave Abrahams and Thomas Becker
Copyright 2005 Carl Barron. Distributed
Copyright 2012 Flavio De Lorenzi (fdlorenzi@gmail.com)
Copyright 2001-2019 Boost.Test contributors
Copyright 1999 Beman Dawes Dave Abrahams
Copyright 2012 Paul Fultz II identity
Copyright 2005 Ben Hutchings
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II partial.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2001-2002 Terje Slettebo
Copyright 2016 Bogumi Chojnowski bogumil DOT chojnowski AT gmail DOT com This is extended version of the state machine available in the boost mpl library 
Copyright 2002-2003 Toon Knapen Kresimir Fresl Joerg Walter
Copyright 2013 Steven Benner
Copyright 2015 Lingxi Li
Copyright 2005 Peder Holt Distributed
Copyright 2004-2005, 2009, 2012 Eric Niebler Distributed
Copyright 2005 Daniel Egloff Eric Niebler. Distributed
Copyright 1999-2001 David Abrahams Jeremy Siek Daryle Walker
Copyright 2016 Arnaud Kapp Oliver Kowalke
(C) COPYRIGHT 2018 Reimar Dffinger 
Copyright 2005-2006, 2014, 2018 Alain Miniussi
Copyright 2007 Alexey Baskakov
Copyright 2011 Brian O'Kennedy
Copyright 2014 Roshan <thisisroshansmail@gmail.com>
Copyright 2006 Douglas Gregor scope
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II fold.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2018 Benjamin Worpitz
Copyright 2010 Felipe Tanus Boris Schaeling
Copyright 1995-2010 Geodan Amsterdam the Netherlands
Copyright 2014 Jim Bell
Copyright 2010-2011 Bryce Lelbach
Copyright 2000-2003 Brian McNamara and Yannis Smaragdakis
Copyright 2013 Oliver Kowalke. Distributed
Copyright 1999 Paul Moore
Copyright 2008-2011 Hartmut Kaiser os
Copyright 2003-2005 Rani Sharoni
Copyright 2012 Olivier Tournaire
Copyright 2000-2002 Darin Adler
Copyright 2001-2002 Housemarque Oy
Copyright 2010 Daniel Wallin Eric Niebler. Distributed
Copyright 1999, 2005, 2013 Hubert Holin. Distributed
Copyright 2019 Damian Jarek(damian.jarek93@gmail.com)
Copyright 2006 2008 2011 John Maddock Johan Rade and Paul A. Bristow. Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2002-2003 Eric Friedman Itay Maman
Copyright 2009-2011 Frederic Bron Robert Stewart Steven Watanabe & Roman Perepelitsa
Copyright 2010 Jeffrey Hellrung. Distributed
Copyright 2012 David Doria Authors David Doria
Copyright 2010 Lars Kielhorn
Copyright 2012 David Doria
Copyright 2009 Erik Bryan
Copyright 2000 Steve Cleary & John Maddock
copyright 2008 Paul A. Bristow John Maddock
Copyright 2008-2019 Vicente J. Botet Escriba
Copyright 2011-2012 Renato Tegon Forti
Copyright 2003-2018 Joaqu
Copyright 2003, 2005-2009 David Abrahams Daniel Wallin
Copyright 2014-2015 Samuel Debionne Grenoble France
Copyright 2000-2001 Stephen Cleary rem rem Distributed
Copyright 2007 Andreas Kloeckner
Copyright 2003 Jeremy Siek Authors Lie-Quan Lee Jeremy Siek and Douglas Gregor
Copyright 2014, 2016 Zach Laine
Copyright 2004 Aaron W. LaFramboise Roland Schwarz Michael Glassford
Copyright 2014 Paul Fultz II always
Copyright 2017 Michel Morin. Distributed
Copyright 2016-2017 Alexander Zaitsev
Copyright 2001, 2004 Jeremy Siek <jsiek@cs.indiana.edu> Distributed
Copyright 1994 Hewlett-Packard Co
Copyright 2009-2014 Neil Groves. Distributed
Copyright 2001-2013 Thomas Heller
Copyright 2012 Paul Fultz II match
Copyright 2008-2013, 2015-2016 Vicente J. Botet Escriba Distributed
Copyright 2011 Paul A. Bristow comments Distributed
Copyright 2005-2018 Daniel James Distributed
Copyright 1999-2001 Beman Dawes David Abrahams
Copyright 1999-2004 Jaakko Jarvi
Copyright 2014 Benoit
Copyright 2009 Eric Bose-Wolf
Copyright 2000-2001 Lie-Quan Lee and Jeremy Siek
Copyright 2009-2010 Mathias Gaunard
Copyright 2010 Barend Gehrels. Distributed
Copyright (c) 2016 Paul Fultz II config.hpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2013 Andreas Hehn <hehn@phys.ethz.ch> ETH Zurich
Copyright 2012-2019 Glen Joseph Fernandes (glenjofe@gmail.com)
Copyright 2015-2019 Antony Polukhin Distributed
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II filter.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2016 Tony Lewis
Copyright 2009-2018 Abel Sinkovics (abel@sinkovics.hu)
Copyright 2013 Agust
Copyright 2015 Bruno Dutra
Copyright 2007 David Deakins
Copyright 2006-2008 Johan Rade
Copyright 2012 Bejamin Sobotta John Maddock and Paul A. Bristow. Distributed
Copyright 2008 Author Matyas W Egyhazy
Copyright 2014 Christopher Kormanyos John Maddock Paul A. Bristow
(C) COPYRIGHT 2017 ARM Limited Based on gzip
Copyright 2002 Raghavendra Satish
Copyright 2012-2014 Denis Demidov
Copyright 2002-2003 Juan Carlos Arevalo-Baeza
Copyright 2015, 2017 Orson Peters
Copyright 2010 Dean Michael Berris. <mikhailberis@gmail.com> Instead of using std tmpnam we
Copyright 2008, 2010 Gunter Winkler <guwi17@gmx.de>
Copyright 2006 Eric Niebler Olivier Gygi. Distributed
Copyright 2001 Dave Abrahams and Daryle Walker
Copyright 2013 Nakhar Agrawal
Copyright 2009 Trustees of Indiana University Authors Jeremiah Willcock Andrew Lumsdaine
Copyright 2010 Thomas Heller For the example
Copyright (c) 2012 Paul Fultz II join.
Copyright (c) 2017 Valere JEANTET 
Copyright 2008 Gennaro Prota Distributed
Copyright 2002 Jeff Garland and Beman Dawes
Copyright 2017 Paul Fultz II implicit.cpp Distributed
Copyright 2010-2018 Justinas Vygintas Daugmaudis
Copyright 2009-2012 David Abrahams Vicente Botet Ion Gaztanaga
Copyright 2009 Dmitry Bufistov Andrew Sutton
Copyright 2001-2002 Daniel C. Nuffer
Copyright 2000 John Maddock and Steve Cleary
Copyright 2002-2012 Paul Mensonides
Copyright 1997-2001 University of Notre Dame. Author Jeremy G. Siek
copyright 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Julio M. Merino Vidal Ilya Sokolov Felipe Tanus Jeff Flinn Boris Schaeling 
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II mutable.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2016-2019 Oracle and or its affiliates. Contributed and or modified by Vissarion Fisikopoulos on behalf of Oracle Contributed and or modified by Adam Wulkiewicz on behalf of Oracle
Copyright 2001-2009, 2014 Steven J. Ross
Copyright 2005-2007 Matthew Calabrese
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II conf.py Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2015, 2017 Paul Fultz II repeat
Copyright 2012 ohn Maddock
Copyright 2005-2017 Daniel James
Copyright 2007, 2011, 2018 Emil Dotchevski
Copyright 2010 Fabien Castan Christian Henning 
Copyright 2014 Paul Fultz II returns
Copyright 2002, 2004 Pavel Vozenilek
Copyright 2002 Aleksey Gurtovoy (agurtovoy@meta-comm.com)
Copyright 2005 Redshift Software Inc
Copyright 2004 Bertolt Mildner
Copyright 2006-2007 notice to include the year
Copyright 2000 Keld Helsgaun
Copyright 2003 Giovanni Bajo
Copyright 2005 Stefan Arentz
Copyright 2006 Alisdair Meredith
Copyright 2013 Nikhar Agrawal
Copyright 2001 Andrei Alexandrescu. Distributed
Copyright 2006 John Maddock Paul A. Bristow and Xiaogang Zhang. Distributed
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II lambda.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2013 Davide Anastasia <davideanastasia@users.sourceforge.net>
(C) Copyright Balint Cserni 2017
Copyright (c) 2014 Agustin Berge Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright (c) 2019 Christian Mazakas 
Copyright 2009 Trustees of Indiana University Author Jeremiah Willcock
Copyright 2013-2014 Paul Bristow Distributed
Copyright 2014 Paul Fultz II lambda
Copyright (c) 2014 Paul Fultz II unwrap.
Copyright (c) 2016 Paul Fultz II noexcept.hpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2018-2019 Cem Bassoy cem.bassoy@gmail.com
Copyright 1999-2001 Jaakko Jarvi (jaakko.jarvi@cs.utu.fi) Gary Powell (gwpowell@hotmail.com)
Copyright 2003 Synge Todo
Copyright 2010 Gordon Woodhull modified from MSMv2
Copyright 2014 Ian Forbed
Copyright 2014 Christpher Kormanyos
Copyright (c) 2011 2012 Martin Lambers <marlam@marlam.de> 
Copyright 2009, 2013 Sebastian Redl Distributed
Copyright 2014 Boris Rasin Antony Polukhin
Copyright 2002-2009 Vladimir Prus Robert Ramey and Takatoshi Kondo
Copyright 2009-2012 Artyom Beilis Distributed
Copyright 2009-2011 Gunter Winkler David Bellot
Copyright 2018 Fady Essam
Copyright 1998-1999 Greg Colvin and Beman Dawes
Copyright 2010, 2013, 2017-2019 John Maddock Distributed
Copyright 2002-2014, 2016 Christopher Kormanyos
Copyright 2001-2008, 2010 Douglas Gregor
Copyright 2014 Paul Fultz II tap
Copyright 2002-2014, 2017-2018 Robert Ramey -
Copyright (C) 1998 by Jacques Nomssi Nzali. For conditions of distribution and use see 
Copyright 2015-2017 Jason Rice
Copyright 2019 Przemyslaw Bartosik
Copyright 2013, 2015 Muhammad Junaid Muzammil <mjunaidmuzammil@gmail.com>
Copyright 2018 Robin Linden
Copyright 2016-2019 Joaqun M Lpez Muoz
Copyright 2001 Jens Mauer
Copyright 2008-2011 Joachim Faulhaber Distributed
Copyright 2014 Alexander Lauser. Authors Alexander Lauser
Copyright 2019 Henry Schreiner Hans Dembinski
Copyright 2015 Michael Caisse ciere.com
Copyright 2016 Jason Rhinelander
copyright 2001-2009 Beman Dawes Daryle Walker Gennaro Prota John Maddock
Copyright 2009 Dean Michael Berris <me@deanberris.com>
Copyright 2018 T. Zachary Laine (whatwasthataddress@gmail.com) 
Copyright 2000-2013 Joerg Walter Mathias Koch Athanasios Iliopoulos
Copyright 2005 Pablo Aguilar
Copyright 1999-2006 Cortex Software GmbH Kantstrasse
Copyright 2010-2012 D. E. Shaw Research
Copyright 2018 T. Zachary Laine Distributed
Copyright (C) 2008-2018 Lorenzo Caminiti -- Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2015 Paul Fultz II construct
Copyright 2010 Larry Evans
Copyright 2017 Kristian Popov <kristian.popov@outlook.com>
Copyright (c) 2015 Orson Peters <orsonpeters@gmail.com> 
Copyright 2013 Krzysztof Czainski
Copyright 2009 Trustees of Indiana University. Authors Michael Hansen
Copyright 2009-2011 Christopher Schmidt
Copyright 2002-2005 Thomas Witt
Copyright 2003-2019 Joaquin M Lopez Munoz. Distributed
Copyright 2002-2010 Marcin Kalicinski
Copyright 2003-2004, 2007-2010, 2012, 2014 Howard Hinnant
Copyright 2007, 2010, 2012, 2014 Paul A. Bristow. Distributed
Copyright 2009 Trustees of Indiana University. Authors Michael Hansen Andrew Lumsdaine
Copyright 2011-2017 Adam Wulkiewicz
Copyright 2009, 2012 Boris Schaeling
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II alias.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2001 Eric Ford & Hubert Holin
Copyright 2006 David Abrahams Jeremy Siek Vladimir Prus
Copyright 2019 Paul A. Bristow additions for more control of serif-italic font etc
Copyright 2018-2019 Raffi Enficiaud Distributed
Copyright 2005-2008 Redshift Software Inc. Distributed
Copyright 2004, 2006 Michael Stevens
Copyright 2001-2008 Dan Marsden
Copyright 2003-2019 Joaquin M Lopez Munoz
Copyright 2019 Olzhas Zhumabek &lt anonymous.from.applecity@gmail.com&gt
Copyright (c) 2012 Paul Fultz II seq.
copyright 2000 2005 Steve Cleary and John Maddock
Copyright 2010 Kenneth Riddile
Copyright 2000 Cadenza New Zealand Ltd Distributed
Copyright (c) 2017 Denis Demidov <dennis.demidov@gmail.com> 
Copyright 2000, 2003 David Abrahams and Jeremy Siek
Copyright 2004-2007, 2010 Peder Holt
Copyright 1995-2017 Mark Adler
Copyright 2011 Paul A. Bristow Inc Boost.Math
Copyright Johan Rade and Paul A. Bristow 2011
Copyright 2009-2011 Frederic Bron. Distributed
Copyright 2006 Eric Niebler Olivier Gygi
Copyright 2013 Cromwell D. Enage Distributed
Copyright 2012 Paul Fultz II pipable
Copyright Klemens David Morgenstern Hans P. Dembinski 2016-2017
Copyright 2014 Paul Fultz II infix
Copyright 2011-2012 Ankit Daftery
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II indirect.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2014-2015, 2017-2019 Peter Dimov. Distributed
Copyright 2001 Samuel Krempp krempp@crans.ens-cachan.fr Distributed
Copyright 2001 University of Notre Dame. Authors Jeremy G. Siek and Lie-Quan Lee
Copyright 2014 Paul Fultz II compose
Copyright 2013 University of Warsaw. Authors Piotr Wygocki
Copyright 2003 Jonathan de Halleux
Copyright (c) 2016 Paul Fultz II recursive
Copyright 2004 Trustees of Indiana University -- -- Distributed
Copyright Andreas Schwab 2019
Copyright 2007-2010, 2012-2013 Christian Henning
Copyright 2013 Tim Blechmann Linux-specific code by Phil Endecott
Copyright 2008-2009, 2016 Tim Blechmann based on code by Cory Nelson
copyright 2009-2019 Barend Gehrels Bruno Lalande Mateusz Loskot Adam Wulkiewicz Oracle and or its affiliates
Copyright 2007-2008 Andreas Pokorny Christian Henning
Copyright 2012-2013 Andreas Pokorny
Copyright 2002-2006 Kiyoshi Matsui <kmatsui@t3.rim.or.jp>
Copyright 2016 K. Noel Belcourt
Copyright 2006 Olivier Gygi Daniel Egloff. Distributed
Copyright 2000-2007 CrystalClear Software Inc
Copyright 2015 Paul Fultz II if
Copyright 2008-2010 Gordon Woodhull
Copyright 1989, 2013-2014 Mageswaran.D <mageswaran1989@gmail.com>
copyright 2015 Abel Sinkovics
Copyright 2006 Boris Gubenko. HP-UX has
Copyright 2011-2012 Brandon Kohn
Copyright 2012 Boris Schaeling Distributed
Copyright 2012-2019 Mateusz Loskot <mateusz@loskot.net>
Copyright 2013, 2015-2019 Antony Polukhin. Distributed
Copyright 2000 Dave Abrahams Steve Cleary Beman Dawes Aleksey Gurtovoy Howard Hinnant & John Maddock
Copyright 2016-2019 2019Damian Jarek
Copyright 2010 Dean Michael Berris
Copyright 2016 John Maddock Paul A. Bristow Thomas Luu Nicholas Thompson. Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2001, 2009 Ronald Garcia
Copyright (c) 2015 Paul Fultz II alias.
Copyright 2011 Paul Heil
Copyright 2018 Tobias Loew
Copyright 2009 ArtVPS Ltd
Copyright 2003-2004 David Abrahams Jeremy Siek and Thomas Witt
Copyright 2009 Pablo Halpern
Copyright 2003 Chris Anderson <christop@charm.net> Please
Copyright 2005 Terje Sletteb and Kevlin Henney
Copyright 2017 ARM Ltd
Copyright 2010, 2015-2017 Francisco Jos Tapia (fjtapia@gmail.com
Copyright 1999-2004, 2006 Jeremy Siek
Copyright 2015 Mario Mulansky <mario.mulansky@gmx.net>
Copyright 2002-2008 Robert Ramey and Joaquin M Lopez Munoz
Copyright 2001-2010, 2012-2013 The Trustees of Indiana University
Copyright 2004 Kristopher Beevers
Copyright 2006 2013 John Maddock Paul A. Bristow Xiaogang Zhang and Christopher Kormanyos. 
Copyright 2004 Vyacheslav E. Andrejev
Copyright 2016 Mikhail Maximov. Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2011 Joerg Becker
Copyright 2017 Bjorn Reese
Copyright 2000-2019 Peter Dimov
Copyright 2007 Matthias Troyer <troyer@boost-consulting.com>
Copyright 2004-2019 Ion Gaztanaga
Copyright 2014, 2016 Paul Fultz II function
Copyright 2018 agate-pris
Copyright 2006 Ralf W. Grosse-Kunstleve & David Abrahams
Copyright 2001 Ronald Garcia Indiana University (garcia@osl.iu.edu)
Copyright 2014-2017 Steven Ross Francisco Tapia Orson Peters
Copyright 2012-2017 Glen Fernandes
Copyright 2000 Maarten Keijzer
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II fix.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright (C) 1995-2017 Jean-loup Gailly detect
Copyright 1995 Maarten Hilferink Amsterdam the Netherlands
Copyright 2001-2009 Beman Dawes Daryle Walker Gennaro Prota and John Maddock
Copyright 2000 Mark Rodgers
Copyright 1999 Netscape Communications
Copyright 2003 Toon Knapen David Abrahams Roland Richter and Jeremy Siek
Copyright 2006-2009 Emil Dotchevski and Reverge Studios Inc. --
Copyright 2012-2018 Louis Dionne
Copyright 2017-2018 Tom Hughes
Copyright 2010 Carl Philipp Reh
Copyright 2014 Christoph Weiss
Copyright 2003-2009 Matthias Christian Schabel
Copyright (c) 2016 Paul Fultz II boost hof.hpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2008 Bruno Lalande
Copyright 2017 Paul Fultz II always.cpp Distributed
Copyright (c) 2014 Paul Fultz II move.
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II reveal.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2012, 2015 Agustin K-ballo Berge
Copyright 2004 Michael Glassford
Copyright 2016 arett Adair
Copyright 2001 Bruce Florman
Copyright 2009 Phil Endecott
Copyright 1999-2010 Aleksey Gurtovoy
Copyright 2000, 2002 Gary Powell (gwpowell@hotmail.com)
Copyright 2011 Boris Schaeling (boris@highscore.de)
Copyright 2008, 2010 Gunter Winkler <guwi17@gmx.de> Distributed
Copyright (C) 2004-2008 Rene Nyffenegger 
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II function.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2006-2012 Alexander Nasonov Lorenzo Caminiti
Copyright 2017-2019 Nick Thompson
Copyright 2006 Matthias Troyerk
Copyright 2016 Jeffrey E. Trull
Copyright 2006-2012 Matias Capeletto
Copyright 2004, 2009-2010 Chris Hoeppler
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II arg.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2003 Vaclav Vesely
Copyright 2001-2002 Daryle Walker and Stephen Cleary
Copyright 2006 Daryle Walker Hubert Holin and John Maddock
copyright 2014-2018 Andrzej Krzemie& 
Copyright 2010-2011 Barend Gehrels
Copyright 2015 Boost development team
Copyright 1997-2000 University of Notre Dame. Authors Andrew Lumsdaine Lie-Quan Lee Jeremy G. Siek Doug Gregor D. Kevin McGrath
Copyright 2003 Gunter Winkler Joerg Walter
Copyright 2016-2017 Alexander Zaitsev <zamazan4ik@gmail.com>
Copyright 2009-2010 Vicente J. Botet Escrib&aacute . Distributed
Copyright 2015 Jeremy W. Murphy
Copyright 2006-2018 John Maddock and Paul A. Bristow. Distributed
Copyright 2009-2015 Artyom Beilis
Copyright 2019 Pranam Lashkari <plashkari628@gmail.com>
Copyright 2000 David Abrahams. Distributed
Copyright 2004-2009 Gunter Winkler
Copyright 2003 David Abrahams Jeremy Siek
Copyright 2004 Douglas Gregor and Jeremy Siek
Copyright 2001-2007 Hartmut Kaiser --
Copyright 2017 James E. King III -
Copyright 2013 2017-2018 Cray Inc. Use modification and distribution are subject to the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2000-2005 Kevlin Henney
Copyright 2002 Brad King (brad.king@kitware.com) Douglas Gregor (gregod@cs.rpi.edu)
Copyright 2010 Sergey GooRoo Olendarenko
Copyright 2013 Alberto Santini Author Alberto Santini <alberto@santini.in>
Copyright 2012-2016 Klemens Morgenstern
Copyright 2009, 2013 Carl Barron
Copyright 2014 Ion Gaztanaga. Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2012 yyyy yyyy <typhoonking77@hotmail.com>
Copyright 2011-2013 Andrew Hundt <ATHundt@gmail.com>
Copyright 2007 CodeRage Author Jonathan Turkanis
Copyright 2002 Guillaume Melquiond Sylvain Pion Herv&eacute Br&ouml nnimann Polytechnic University
Copyright 2015 Paul Fultz II flow
Copyright 2009 Edward Grace
Copyright 2011 John Resig Dual
Copyright 2001 Vladimir Prus <ghost@cs.msu.su>
Copyright 2007-2008 Steven Watanabe Joseph Gauterin Niels Dekker
Copyright 2000-2009 Michael Stevens Mathias Koch Joerg Walter Gunter Winkler
Copyright (c) 2015 Paul Fultz II can
Copyright 2003, 2006-2007 Daniel Walker
Copyright 2004-2010 Alexander Nasonov
Copyright 2005-2012 Anthony Williams
Copyright 2017 Felix Salfelder 
Copyright 2018-2019 Matthew Pulver
Copyright 2005-2009 Trustees of Indiana University Distributed
Copyright 2013 Antony Polukhin Move semantics implementation
Copyright 2016-2017 Paul Fultz II print.cpp Distributed
Copyright 2014 Paul A. Bristow Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright (c) 2007 by Frank Mori Hess <fmhess@users.sourceforge.net> 
Copyright 2005 Felix Hfling Guillaume Melquiond 
Copyright 2006 Michael van der Westhuizen
Copyright 2005 Igor Chesnokov mailto ichesnokov@gmail.com
Copyright 2004 Joe Coder. Distributed
Copyright 2011 Kwan Ting Chan
Copyright 2016 Szabolcs Toth (thszabi@gmail.com)
Copyright 2001 Jaakko J u00E4rvi
Copyright 2005-2006, 2009 Alexander Nasonov. Distributed
Copyright 2013 Paul A. Bristow Doxygen comments changed for new
Copyright 2003 Bruce Barr Authors Andrew Lumsdaine Lie-Quan Lee Jeremy G. Siek
Copyright 2009-2012, 2014 Marco Guazzone
Copyright 1997-2001 University of Notre Dame. Authors Jeremy G. Siek Lie-Quan Lee Andrew Lumsdaine
Copyright 2005-2007, 2011, 2015-2018 Stefan Seefeld
Copyright 1998 Addison-Wesley Longman Inc
Copyright 2009-2011 Helge Bahmann
Copyright 2017 Paul Fultz II tuple
Copyright 2004 Douglas Gregor and Jeremy Siek Distributed
Copyright 2008 Ilya Sokolov Boris Schaeling
Copyright 2004-2007 &copy
Copyright (c) Maciej Piechotka 2013
Copyright 2008, 2013-2018 Rene Rivera Distributed
Copyright (c) 2019 Tinko Bartels 
Copyright 2018 Andrey Semashev Distributed
Copyright 2002 Martin Ecker
Copyright 2009-2019 Mateusz Loskot London UK
Copyright 2017 Vinnie NotDefaultConstructible 
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II pipable.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2012 Oswin Krause
Copyright 2014-2018 Andrzej Krzemienski
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II result.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2017 Paul Fultz II unpack.cpp Distributed
Copyright 2005 Sergey Shandar
Copyright 2010, 2012 Christopher Schmidt Nathan Ridge
Copyright 2016 Giel van Schijndel
Copyright 2003-2007 Jonathan Turkanis Distributed
Copyright 2013 Paul A. Bristow additions for more colors and alignments
Copyright  2009-2012 Lorenzo 
Copyright 2003 Rational Discovery LLC
Copyright (C) 2017 Minmin Gong 
Copyright 2009-2011 Steven Watanabe Distributed
Copyright 2010 Thomas Claveirole Authors Andrew Lumsdaine Lie-Quan Lee Jeremy G. Siek Thomas Claveirole
Copyright (c) 2019 Tom Tan 
Copyright 2015 Boost.Test team. Distributed
Copyright 2002 Marc Wintermantel (wintermantel@imes.mavt.ethz.ch) ETH Zurich Center of Structure Technologies
Copyright 2004-2006 Arkadiy Vertleyb
Copyright 2004 Henrik Ravn
Copyright 2014, 2018 Kohei Takahashi Distributed
Copyright 2005-2007 Michael Drexl
Copyright 2008 Bruno Lalande. Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2017 Bjrn Reese 
Copyright 2010 Cowboy Ben Alman Dual
Copyright 2006 &nbsp Eric Niebler
Copyright 2016-2018 Paul Fultz II
Copyright 2003-2019 Joaqu&iacute
Copyright 2001 Ronald Garcia Indiana University (garcia@osl.iu.edu) Andrew Lumsdaine Indiana University (lums@osl.iu.edu). Distributed
Copyright 2019, 2211 Miral Shah <miralshah2211@gmail.com>
Copyright 2018 Steffen Hirschmann
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II rotate.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2015, 2018 Kohei Takahshi
Copyright 2014 Paul Fultz II indirect
Copyright 2006 Marcin Kalicinski Distributed
Copyright 2018 Jiaxun Yang
Copyright 2015 Paul Fultz II eval
Copyright 2013-2014 Nikhar Agrawal Christopher Kormanyos John Maddock Paul A. Bristow. Distributed
Copyright 2001, 2006 &nbsp John Maddock
Copyright 2001-2003 Mac Murrett
Copyright 2015, 2017 Paul Fultz II apply
Copyright 2017, 2019 Nick Thompson Distributed
Copyright 2018-2019 Cem Bassoy
Copyright 2012 David Stone
Copyright 1995 Gerald Evenden
Copyright 1999-2006 Cortex Software GmbH
Copyright 2001-2002 Jeremy Siek and John R. Bandela
Copyright 2009 Jesse Williamson
Copyright 2013 2013 John Maddock Anton Bikineev. 
Copyright 2011 Garmin Ltd. or its subsidiaries
Copyright 2015 Jakub Pola <jakub.pola@gmail.com>
Copyright 2012 Duncan Exon Smith
Copyright 2012-2018 Kohei Takahashi
Copyright 2001 Francois Faure
Copyright 2014 iamvfx@gmail.com
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II compose.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2011 Robert Nelson
Copyright (c) 2014 fqiang 
Copyright textcopyright Matthew Pulver 2018--2019
Copyright 2014 Paul Fultz II placeholders
Copyright 2010, 2014 Neil Groves Distributed
Copyright 2004, 2013, 2017-2019 Cromwell D. Enage
Copyright 2006-2019 John Maddock. Distributed
Copyright 2002-2006 Pavol Droba
Copyright 2017-2018 Nicholas Thompson
Copyright 2002-2003 Beman Dawes William E. Kempf
Copyright 2007-2008 Anthony Williams ifndef THREAD
Copyright 2005-2007 Douglas Gregor <doug.gregor@gmail.com>
Copyright 1996 Ronald Van Iwaarden
Copyright 2012 Benjamin Sobotta
Copyright 2018 Evgeny Shulgin
Copyright 2009 &nbsp Sebastian Redl
Copyright 2006-2007, 2009-2010 Andy Tompkins. Distributed
Copyright 2003 Jonathan de Halleux (dehalleux@pelikhan.com)
Copyright 2006-2007 Julio M. Merino Vidal
Copyright 2007-2010 Andrew Sutton
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II flow.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2000 Beman Dawes & John Maddock. 
Copyright 2005 Jong Soo Park
Copyright 2004 Rani Sharoni Robert Ramey Pavel Vozenilek and Christoph Ludwig
Copyright 2013-2015 Nat Goodspeed
Copyright 2008-2018 Marshall Clow
Copyright 2018 Authors Rasmus Ahlberg 
Copyright 2014 Kyle Lutz <kyle.r.lutz@gmail.com> Distributed
Copyright 2011 Laurent Gomila
Copyright 2003 CrystalClear Software
Copyright 2017 Dynatrace
Copyright 2008, 2014 Thijs van den Berg
Copyright 2015, 2017 Paul Fultz II rotate
Copyright 2016-2018 T. Zachary Laine
Copyright 2009-2016 Vladimir Batov
Copyright 2001-2002 Chris Uzdavinis
Copyright (c) 2015 Paul Fultz II callable
Copyright 2000 Jeremy Siek and Andrew Lumsdaine
Copyright 2013-2019 Vinnie Falco
Copyright 2004 Jonathan Brandmeyer
Copyright 2002 Rani Sharoni (rani_sharoni@hotmail.com) and Robert Ramey
Copyright 2001-2004, 2006 Ralf W. Grosse-Kunstleve
Copyright 2017 Sergey Krivonos
Copyright 2004 Angus Leeming
Copyright 2006 Xiaogang Zhang
Copyright 2002-2003 Beman Dawes Boost.Filesystem Distributed
Copyright 2001 Francois Faure iMAGIS-GRAVIR UJF
Copyright 2005 Christopher Diggins
Copyright 2008 N. Musatti
Copyright 2001-2009 Daniel Nuffer
Copyright 2002 Robert Ramey-
Copyright 2006-2019 Paul A. Bristow
Copyright 2007 Douglas Gregor and Matthias Troyer
Copyright 2006 Trustees of Indiana University Authors Jeremy G. Siek and Douglas Gregor <dgregor@cs.indiana.edu>
Copyright 2001 Gennadiy Rozental & Ullrich Koethe
Copyright (c) 2017-2017 Albert Sverdlov 
Copyright 2007 Noel Belcourt
Copyright 2001 Dietmar Kuehl
Copyright 2005-2006 Shunsuke Sogame
Copyright 2009, 2014 Microsoft Corp
Copyright 2003 Pavel Vozenilek and Robert Ramey -
Copyright 2002 Craig Henderson
Copyright 2002 Indiana University. Authors Andrew Lumsdaine Lie-Quan Lee Jeremy G. Siek
Copyright 2001-2012, 2014 Thomas Bernard
Copyright 2000, 2002 Frank Warmerdam
Copyright 20142014 Matei David
Copyright 2014 Marco Guazzone (marco.guazzone@gmail.com) Distributed
Copyright (c) 2016 Paul Fultz II intrinsics.hpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2003-2007 Jonathan Turkanis
Copyright 2009-2010 Tim Blechmann Distributed
Copyright 2009 Troy D. Straszheim
Copyright 2005 Eric Niebler Daniel Egloff. Distributed
Copyright 2003-2004 Jeremy B. Maitin-Shepard
Copyright 2011 Francois Mauger
Copyright 2017 Michel Morin
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II decorate.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2019 Austin Beer
Copyright 2014-2017 Paul Fultz II static
Copyright (C) 2001 Douglas Gregor (gregod@cs.rpi.edu) 
Copyright 2012 Lucanus Simonson
Copyright 2003 Rational Discovery LLC. Distributed
Copyright 2002-2006 Gennaro Prota
Copyright 2007-2008 Joseph Gauterin
Copyright 2013 Niall Douglas additions for colors and alignment
Copyright 2014 Paul Fultz II reveal
Copyright 2015 Oracle and or its affiliates. Contributed and or modified by Menelaos Karavelas on behalf of Oracle
copyright 2002 2003 2004 2005 2010 2014 2015 Joel de Guzman Dan Marsden Thomas Heller John Fletcher
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II CMakeLists.txt Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2004 Robert Ramey and Martin Ecker
Copyright 2013 Ankur Sinha
Copyright 2001 Thomas Flemming tf@ttqv.com
Copyright 2009 Trustees of Indiana University. Authors Andrew Lumsdaine Lie-Quan Lee Jeremy G. Siek Michael Hansen
Copyright 2001-2002 Jeremy G. Siek Andrew Lumsdaine Lie-Quan Lee
Copyright 2011 Paul A. Bristow To incorporate into Boost.Math
Copyright 2012 Paul Fultz II implicit
Copyright 2000-2008 Fernando Luis Cacciola Carballal
Copyright 2008 Peter Kankowski
Copyright 2005-2018 Daniel James. Distributed
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II flip.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2005-2008 Adobe Systems Inc
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II tap.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2012-2013 Andreas Angelopoulos
Copyright 2002 Marc Wintermantel (wintermantel@even-ag.ch) ETH Zurich Center of Structure Technologies
Copyright 2001 Lie-Quan Lee
Copyright 2006 Trustees of Indiana University Authors Douglas Gregor and Jeremy Siek
Copyright 2002-2005 Andreas Huber Doenni
Copyright 2003-2014 Neil Groves
Copyright 2014 Paul Fultz II protect
Copyright 2003 Thomas Becker
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II placeholders.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2005 Daniel K. O
Copyright 2014-2015 John Fletcher Distributed
Copyright 2015 Oliver Kowalke Nat Goodspeed
Copyright 2001 Mat Marcus Jesse Jones and Adobe Systems Inc
Copyright 2000, 2010 Dave Abrahams Steve Cleary Beman Dawes Howard Hinnant and John Maddock
Copyright 2006-2015, 2018 Steven Watanabe
Copyright 2000 Cadenza New Zealand Ltd
Copyright 2008-2019 Lorenzo Caminiti
Copyright 2018 Oracle and or its affiliates Contributed and or modified by Adam Wulkiewicz on behalf of Oracle
Copyright 2013-2014 Rastko Anicic <anicic.rastko@gmail.com>
Copyright 2005-2009 JongSoo Park
Copyright 2011 Dean Michael Berries
Copyright 1999 Greg Colvin
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II lift.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2013-2016 Modified Work Barrett Adair
Copyright 2013 Eurodecision
Copyright (c) 2008 samaxes.com 
Copyright 2001-2015 Gennadiy Rozental
Copyright 2005 Keith MacDonald
Copyright 2001-2003 William E. Kempf
Copyright 2011 Kwan Ting Chan Based from bug report submitted by Xiaohan Wang
Copyright 2013 Pascal Germroth Distributed
Copyright (C) 2003 by Cosmin Truta. For conditions of distribution and use see 
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II proj.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2001-2002 Chuck Allison and Jeremy Siek
Copyright 2019, 2211 Miral Shah &lt miralshah2211@gmail.com&gt
Copyright 2006-2007 Daryle Walker Hubert Holin John Maddock
Copyright 2011-2012 Jeff Flinn Boris Schaeling
Copyright 2002 Vahan Margaryan
Copyright 2001-2002 Bill Kempf
Copyright &copy 2013 Jakob Lykke Andersen University of Southern Denmark 
Copyright 2017 Abel Sinkovics. Distributed
Copyright 1998-2000 Dr John Maddock
Copyright 1998-2018 Joel de Guzman Hartmut Kaiser
Copyright 2014 Christopher Kormanyos John Maddock and Paul A. Bristow. Distributed
Copyright 2013-2014 Anton Bikineev
Copyright 2014, 2804 Fabian Khler <fabian2804@googlemail.com>
Copyright 2017 NVIDIA CORPORATION. Use modification and distribution are subject to the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2013 Christopher Kormanyos. Distributed
Copyright 2006-2007 Roland Schwarz
Copyright 2010 Nuovation System Designs LLC
Copyright 2002-2013 Thorsten Ottosen
Copyright 2002-2015 David Abrahams Stefan Seefeld
Copyright 2005-2006, 2015 Ion Gaztaaga
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II identity.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2006-2007 Boris Gubenko
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II limit.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2007 Frank Birbacher
Copyright 2002-2010 Fernando Cacciola
Copyright 1995-2017 Jean-loup Gailly Mark Adler
Copyright 2015 Seth Heeren
Copyright 1997-2001 University of Notre Dame. Authors Andrew Lumsdaine Lie-Quan Lee Jeremy G. Siek
Copyright 2007-2012 Christian Henning Andreas Pokorny
Copyright 2002 H Lohninger TU Wein H.Lohninger Teach Me Data Analysis Springer-Verlag Berlin-New York-Tokyo
Copyright (c) 2016 Paul Fultz II using.hpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2011 Ryan Molden
Copyright  2017 Sergey Krivonos and Edward Diener
Copyright 2012, 2015 Joel Falcou
Copyright (c) 2009-2017 Barend Gehrels Geodan Amsterdam the Netherlands. 
Copyright 2010 Gaetano Mendola
Copyright 2012-2013 Karsten Ahnert Distributed
Copyright 2002-2009 Vladimir Prus and Robert Ramey
Copyright 2013 Andreas Hehn <hehn@phys.ethz.ch> ETH Zurich based on hellp-world
Copyright 1999-2006, 2009 David Abrahams
Copyright 2003-2008 Thorsten Ottosen Neil Groves
Copyright 2000-2007 Joerg Walter Mathias Koch Gunter Winkler Michael Stevens
Copyright 2013 Sergue E. Leontiev
Copyright 2004 Kris Beevers
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II issue8.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2003 David Abrahams and Gottfried Ganssauge
Copyright 2000-2004 Joerg Walter Mathias Koch
Copyright 2004-2006 David Abrahams & Ralf W. Grosse-Kunsteve
Copyright 2015 Paul Fultz II lift
Copyright 2008 Matyas Egyhazy
Copyright 2006 Tiago de Paula Peixoto <tiago@forked.de>
Copyright 2002-2005 Guillaume Melquiond
Copyright 1995-2001 Beman Dawes and Ullrich Koethe
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II combine.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright (c) 2017 Paul Fultz II lazy.cpp Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2010, 2015-2019 &nbsp
Copyright 2011 Aaron Graham
Copyright 2000-2011 Joerg Walter Mathias Koch David Bellot
Copyright 2005 Jordan DeLong
Copyright 1995-2017 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler
Copyright 2009-2019 Adam Wulkiewicz Lodz Poland
Copyright 2010-2012 Jim Bosch
Copyright 2012 Flavio De Lorenzi
Copyright 2016 Klemens Morgenstern Antony Polukhin
Copyright 2008 Jurko Gospodnetic
Copyright (C) 2002-2004 Dmitriy Anisimkov -- -- -- -- This library is free software you can redistribute it and or modify -- 
Copyright 2014 Boris Rasin
Copyright 2009-2013, 2015 Sebastian Redl
Copyright 2010 Nicolas Lelong
Copyright 2008-2009 Francois Barel
Copyright 2001 University of Notre Dame. Author Andrew Janiszewski Jeremy G. Siek
Copyright 1997-2001 University of Notre Dame. Authors Lie-Quan Lee Jeremy Siek
Copyright 2013 Jakob Lykke Andersen University of Southern Denmark (jlandersen@imada.sdu.dk)
Copyright 2000-2009 Joerg Walter Mathias Koch Gunter Winkler
Copyright 2001 Ralf W. Grosse-Kunstleve. Distributed
Copyright 2012, 2017 Paul Fultz II first
Copyright 2007-2010 jmc
Copyright 2013-2014 &nbsp Rene Rivera
Copyright 2002-2010 Vladimir Prus
copyright 2000 2011 Adobe Systems Inc David Abrahams Frederic Bron Steve Cleary Beman Dawes Aleksey Gurtovoy Howard Hinnant Jesse Jones Mat Marcus Itay Maman John Maddock Alexander Nasonov Thorsten Ottosen 
Copyright 2011 Simon West
Copyright 2018 Adeel Ahmad Islamabad Pakistan
Copyright 2017 Paul Fultz II Jamfile
Copyright 2019 Mateusz Loskot &lt mateusz at loskot dot net&gt
Copyright 2011 Andrew Ross
Copyright 2004 Jeremy Siek <jsiek@cs.indiana.edu>
Copyright notice Author Frank Warmerdam warmerdam@pobox.com
Copyright 2008 Beman Dawes Distributed
Copyright 2000-2006 David Abrahams and Thomas Becker
Copyright 2007 University of Karlsruhe Authors Andrew Lumsdaine Lie-Quan Lee Jeremy G. Siek Douglas Gregor Jens Mueller





coin-or version 1.6.0
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
 * Copyright (C) 2005-2011, Robert Fourer, Horand Gassmann, Jun Ma, Kipp Martin, 
 * Northwestern University, Dalhousie University and the University of Chicago. 
 * All Rights Reserved. 
 * This software is licensed under the Eclipse Public License. 
 * Please see the accompanying LICENSE file in root directory for terms. 



Copyright 2005-2011 Horand Gassmann Jun Ma Kipp Martin Dalhousie University Northwestern University and the University of Chicago
(C) Giacomo Nannicini 2010
Copyright 2000, 2002, 2006-2008, 2010 International Business Machines Corp and others
Copyright 2005-2011 Robert Fourer Horand Gassmann Jun Ma Kipp Martin Dalhousie University Northwestern University and the University of Chicago
Copyright 2000, 2006-2008 International Business Machines
Copyright 2003 Tim Helge Hultberg
Copyright (C) 2005 2009 International Business Machines and others. C All Rights Reserved. C This code is published under the Eclipse Public License. 
Copyright 2004-2011 International Business Machines and others
Copyright 2011 Francois Margot and Carnegie Mellon University
(c) Copyright 2005-2011 Ted Ralphs. All Rights Reserved. 
Copyright 2005-2011 Robert Fourer Horand Gassmann Jun Ma Kipp Martin Northwestern University Dalhousie University and the University of Chicago
Copyright 2004-2006 Ted Ralphs and Lehigh University
Copyright 2010 Pietro Belotti
Copyright 2005-2006 Carnegie Mellon University
Copyright 2005-2011 Horand Gassmann Jun Ma Kipp Martin Northwestern University Dalhousie University and the University of Chicago
Copyright 2004, 2006-2007 International Business Machines Corp Carnegie Mellon University
Copyright 2006-2008 International Business Machines Corp
Copyright 2004, 2006-2008 International Business Machines Corp and Carnegie Mellon University











coin-or-cbc version 2.7.5
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
The text of the Eclipse Public License, version 1.0, a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, or as applicable, applies to the above-listed file(s).
Copyright 2000, 2002-2009 International Business Machines Corp and others
Copyright 2007 Lou Hafer International Business Machines Corp and others
Copyright 2007 International Business Machines
Copyright (C) 1997-2000 Lucent Technologies Modifications for Coin - 
Copyright 1994-2005 Free Software Foundation Inc
Copyright (C) 2006 2007 International Business Machines and others. All Rights Reserved. This file is distributed under the Eclipse Public License. 













coin-or-cgl version 0.57.2
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
The text of the Eclipse Public License, version 1.0, a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, or as applicable, applies to the above-listed file(s).
Copyright 2000-2009 International Business Machines Corp and others
Copyright 2005-2009 Pierre Bonami and others
Copyright 2006 International Business Machines and others
Copyright 2003 Yan Xu Jeff Linderoth Martin Savelsberg and others
Copyright 2005-2006 Francois Margot and others
Copyright 1994-2005 Free Software Foundation Inc
Copyright 2000, 2002, 2005 International Business Machines











coin-or-chipps-alps version 1.4.1
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
The text of the Eclipse Public License, version 1.0, a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, or as applicable, applies to the above-listed file(s).
 * Copyright (C) 2001-2011, Lehigh University, Yan Xu, and Ted Ralphs.       *
 * All Rights Reserved.










coin-or-chipps-biceps version 0.93.1
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
The text of the Eclipse Public License, version 1.0, a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, or as applicable, applies to the above-listed file(s).
* Copyright (C) 2001-2011, Lehigh University, Yan Xu, and Ted Ralphs.       *
 * All Rights Reserved









coin-or-chipps-blis version 0.93.1
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
The text of the Eclipse Public License, version 1.0, a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, or as applicable, applies to the above-listed file(s).
* Copyright (C) 2001-2011, Lehigh University, Yan Xu, and Ted Ralphs.       *
 * All Rights Reserved










coin-or-clp version 1.14.5
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
The text of the Eclipse Public License, version 1.0, a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, or as applicable, applies to the above-listed file(s).
// Copyright (C) 2003, International Business Machines
// Corporation and others.  All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 1997, 2009 IBM Corp
Copyright 2006 International Business Machines and others
Copyright 1994-2005 Free Software Foundation Inc
Copyright 2000, 2002-2004, 2007-2009 International Business Machines Corp and others











coin-or-coinutils version 2.8.5
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
The text of the Eclipse Public License, version 1.0, a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, or as applicable, applies to the above-listed file(s).
Copyright 1984, 1989-1990, 2000-2003 Free Software Foundation Inc
Copyright 2005 COIN-OR
Copyright 2003 Francois Margot International Business Machines Corp and others
Copyright 2004, 2006 International Business Machines and others
Copyright 1987, 2000, 2002-2009, 2011 International Business Machines Corp and others
Copyright (c) 2002-2011 Bjarni Kristjansson












coin-or-cppad version 20110101.50
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>


/* --------------------------------------------------------------------------
CppAD: C++ Algorithmic Differentiation: Copyright (C) 2003-06 Bradley M. Bell

CppAD is distributed under multiple licenses. This distribution is under
the terms of the 
                    Common Public License Version 1.0.

A copy of this license is included in the COPYING file of this distribution.
Please visit http://www.coin-or.org/CppAD/ for information on other licenses.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------- */


Copyright 2007 International Business Machines Corp
Copyright 2002-2011 Lehigh University Matthew Galati Ted Ralphs
Copyright 2003 Bradley M. Bell
Copyright 2001-2011 Lehigh University Yan Xu and Ted Ralphs


coin-or-dip version 0.83.0
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
The text of the Eclipse Public License, version 1.0, a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, or as applicable, applies to the above-listed file(s).
Copyright (C) 2002-2011, Lehigh University, Matthew Galati, Ted Ralphs    //
// All Rights Reserved.












coin-or-dylp version 1.8.2
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
The text of the Eclipse Public License, version 1.0, a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, or as applicable, applies to the above-listed file(s).
Copyright (C) 2005 -- 2007 Lou Hafer










coin-or-osi version 0.105.2
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
The text of the Eclipse Public License, version 1.0, a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, or as applicable, applies to the above-listed file(s).
Copyright 2005-2011 Horand Gassmann Jun Ma Kipp Martin Dalhousie University Northwestern University and the University of Chicago
Copyright (C) 2005 -- 2010 Lou Hafer 
Copyright 2005-2011 Robert Fourer Horand Gassmann Jun Ma Kipp Martin Northwestern University Dalhousie University and the University of Chicago
Copyright 2004-2006 Ted Ralphs and Lehigh University
Copyright 2000, 2002-2003, 2005-2006 International Business Machines
Copyright 2003-2004, 2007 Lou Hafer International Business Machines Corp and others
Copyright 2005-2011 Robert Fourer Horand Gassmann Jun Ma Kipp Martin Dalhousie University Northwestern University and the University of Chicago
Copyright (C) 2002 2003 2004. Lou Hafer Stephen Tse International Business Machines Corporation and others. All Rights Reserved. 
Copyright 2000, 2002-2003, 2005-2006 International Business Machines Corp and others
Copyright 2007 Lou Hafer and others










curl version 7.64.1
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>


COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE

Copyright (c) 1996 - 2013, Daniel Stenberg, <daniel@haxx.se>.

All rights reserved.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any purpose
with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN
NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM,
DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR
OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE
OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder shall not
be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealings
in this Software without prior written authorization of the copyright holder.



Copyright 1998-2018 Florin Petriuc <petriuc.florin@gmail.com>
Copyright 2012-2016 Linus Nielsen Feltzing <linus@haxx.se>
Copyright 2004-2015 Guenter Knauf
Copyright 2010 Howard Chu <hyc@highlandsun.com>
Copyright 1997-2019 Daniel Stenberg <daniel@haxx.se> et al
Copyright 2009, 2011 Markus Moeller <markus_moeller@compuserve.com>
Copyright 2012 Marc Hoersken <info@marc-hoersken.de> et al
Copyright (C) 2017 - 2019 Red Hat Inc. 
Copyright (c) 2004 - 2017 Daniel Stenberg All rights reserved. 
Copyright 2012-2017 Nick Zitzmann <nickzman@gmail.com>
Copyright 1996-2001 Internet Software Consortium
Copyright 1995-1999, 2017 Kungliga Tekniska H
Copyright 2012-2016 Marc Hoersken <info@marc-hoersken.de>
Copyright 2012 Mark Salisbury <mark.salisbury@hp.com>
Copyright 2001-2004 Damien Miller <djm@openbsd.org>
Copyright 2010-2011 Hoi-Ho Chan <hoiho.chan@gmail.com>
Copyright 1994-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc
Copyright 2010 Howard Chu <hyc@openldap.org>
Copyright 2001 Eric Lavigne
Copyright 2001 Alexander Peslyak and it is hereby released to the general public
Copyright 2014 Bill Nagel <wnagel@tycoint.com> Exacq Technologies
Copyright 2014-2017 Steve Holme <steve_holme@hotmail.com>
Copyright 2017-2018 Yiming Jing <jingyiming@baidu.com>


gcc version 11.2.0
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>


The text of the GNU General Public License, Version 2 (June 1991), a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, or as applicable, applies to the above-listed file(s).

The text of the GNU Lesser General Public License, Version 2.1, a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, or as applicable, applies to the above-listed file(s).

The text of the GNU GCC RUNTIME LIBRARY EXCEPTION, Version 3.1 (March 2009), a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, or as applicable, applies to the above-listed file(s).

The text of the GNU General Public License, Version 3 (June 2007), a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, or as applicable, applies to the above-listed file(s).

The text of the GNU Lesser General Public License, Version 3 (29 June 2007), a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, or as applicable, applies to the above-listed file(s).

>>>> gcc/go
Copyright (c) 2009 The Go Authors. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

   * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
   * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer
in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
distribution.
   * Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

>>>> boost
DRuntime: Runtime Library for the D Programming Language
========================================================

Boost Software License - Version 1.0 - August 17th, 2003

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or organization
obtaining a copy of the software and accompanying documentation covered by
this license (the "Software") to use, reproduce, display, distribute,
execute, and transmit the Software, and to prepare derivative works of the
Software, and to permit third-parties to whom the Software is furnished to
do so, all subject to the following:

The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement, including
the above license grant, this restriction and the following disclaimer,
must be included in all copies of the Software, in whole or in part, and
all derivative works of the Software, unless such copies or derivative
works are solely in the form of machine-executable object code generated by
a source language processor.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT
SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

>>>>
Boost Software License - Version 1.0 - August 17th, 2003

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or organization
obtaining a copy of the software and accompanying documentation covered by
this license (the "Software") to use, reproduce, display, distribute,
execute, and transmit the Software, and to prepare derivative works of the
Software, and to permit third-parties to whom the Software is furnished to
do so, all subject to the following:

The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement, including
the above license grant, this restriction and the following disclaimer,
must be included in all copies of the Software, in whole or in part, and
all derivative works of the Software, unless such copies or derivative
works are solely in the form of machine-executable object code generated by
a source language processor.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT
SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

>>>> functions:
   This function is in the public domain.  */

>>>> doc
Copyright (C) 2005-2019 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
This is part of the GNU Fortran manual.   
For copying conditions, see the file gfortran.texi.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with the
Invariant Sections being ``Funding Free Software'', the Front-Cover
Texts being (a) (see below), and with the Back-Cover Texts being (b)
(see below).  A copy of the license is included in the gfdl(7) man page.

>>>
==============================================================================
compiler_rt License
==============================================================================

The compiler_rt library is dual licensed under both the University of Illinois
"BSD-Like" license and the MIT license.  As a user of this code you may choose
to use it under either license.  As a contributor, you agree to allow your code
to be used under both.

Full text of the relevant licenses is included below.

==============================================================================

University of Illinois/NCSA
Open Source License

Copyright (c) 2009-2012 by the contributors listed in CREDITS.TXT

All rights reserved.

Developed by:

    LLVM Team

    University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

    http://llvm.org

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal with
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do
so, subject to the following conditions:

    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
      this list of conditions and the following disclaimers.

    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
      this list of conditions and the following disclaimers in the
      documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

    * Neither the names of the LLVM Team, University of Illinois at
      Urbana-Champaign, nor the names of its contributors may be used to
      endorse or promote products derived from this Software without specific
      prior written permission.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
CONTRIBUTORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS WITH THE
SOFTWARE.

==============================================================================

Copyright (c) 2009-2012 by the contributors listed in CREDITS.TXT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.

==============================================================================
Copyrights and Licenses for Third Party Software Distributed with LLVM:
==============================================================================
The LLVM software contains code written by third parties.  Such software will
have its own individual LICENSE.TXT file in the directory in which it appears.
This file will describe the copyrights, license, and restrictions which apply
to that code.

The disclaimer of warranty in the University of Illinois Open Source License
applies to all code in the LLVM Distribution, and nothing in any of the
other licenses gives permission to use the names of the LLVM Team or the
University of Illinois to endorse or promote products derived from this
Software.

The following pieces of software have additional or alternate copyrights,
licenses, and/or restrictions:

Program             Directory
-------             ---------
mach_override       lib/interception/mach_override


>>>>
//
// Part of the LLVM Project, under the Apache License v2.0 with LLVM Exceptions.
// See https://llvm.org/LICENSE.txt for license information.
// SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 WITH LLVM-exception
//

---- LLVM Exceptions to the Apache 2.0 License ----
==============================================================================
The LLVM Project is under the Apache License v2.0 with LLVM Exceptions:
==============================================================================

 The text of the Apache License, Version 2.0, a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, or as applicable, applies to the above-listed file(s).

As an exception, if, as a result of your compiling your source code, portions
of this Software are embedded into an Object form of such source code, you
may redistribute such embedded portions in such Object form without complying
with the conditions of Sections 4(a), 4(b) and 4(d) of the License.

In addition, if you combine or link compiled forms of this Software with
software that is licensed under the GPLv2 ("Combined Software") and if a
court of competent jurisdiction determines that the patent provision (Section
3), the indemnity provision (Section 9) or other Section of the License
conflicts with the conditions of the GPLv2, you may retroactively and
prospectively choose to deem waived or otherwise exclude such Section(s) of
the License, but only in their entirety and only with respect to the Combined
Software.

==============================================================================
Software from third parties included in the LLVM Project:
==============================================================================
The LLVM Project contains third party software which is under different license
terms. All such code will be identified clearly using at least one of two
mechanisms:
1) It will be in a separate directory tree with its own `LICENSE.txt` or
   `LICENSE` file at the top containing the specific license and restrictions
   which apply to that software, or
2) It will contain specific license and restriction terms at the top of every
   file.

==============================================================================
Legacy LLVM License (https://llvm.org/docs/DeveloperPolicy.html#legacy):
==============================================================================

The software contained in this directory tree is dual licensed under both the
University of Illinois "BSD-Like" license and the MIT license.  As a user of
this code you may choose to use it under either license.  As a contributor,
you agree to allow your code to be used under both.

Full text of the relevant licenses is included below.

==============================================================================
University of Illinois/NCSA
Open Source License

Copyright (c) 2017-2019 by the contributors listed in CREDITS.TXT

All rights reserved.

Developed by:
    Threading Runtimes Team
    Intel Corporation
    http://www.intel.com

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal with
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do
so, subject to the following conditions:

    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
      this list of conditions and the following disclaimers.

    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
      this list of conditions and the following disclaimers in the
      documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

    * Neither the names of Intel Corporation Threading Runtimes Team nor the
      names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
      derived from this Software without specific prior written permission.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
CONTRIBUTORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS WITH THE
SOFTWARE.

==============================================================================
Copyright (c) 2017-2019 by the contributors listed in CREDITS.TXT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.



>>>>> 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

This program, "bzip2", the associated library "libbzip2", and all
documentation, are copyright (C) 1996-2010 Julian R Seward.  All
rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must 
   not claim that you wrote the original software.  If you use this 
   software in a product, an acknowledgment in the product 
   documentation would be appreciated but is not required.

3. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must
   not be misrepresented as being the original software.

4. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote 
   products derived from this software without specific prior written 
   permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY
DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE
GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

Julian Seward, jseward@bzip.org
bzip2/libbzip2 version 1.0.6 of 6 September 2010

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

>>> unicode
ï»¿UNICODE, INC. LICENSE AGREEMENT - DATA FILES AND SOFTWARE

    Unicode Data Files include all data files under the directories
http://www.unicode.org/Public/, http://www.unicode.org/reports/, and
http://www.unicode.org/cldr/data/. Unicode Data Files do not include PDF
online code charts under the directory http://www.unicode.org/Public/.
Software includes any source code published in the Unicode Standard or under
the directories http://www.unicode.org/Public/,
http://www.unicode.org/reports/, and http://www.unicode.org/cldr/data/.

    NOTICE TO USER: Carefully read the following legal agreement. BY
DOWNLOADING, INSTALLING, COPYING OR OTHERWISE USING UNICODE INC.'S DATA FILES
("DATA FILES"), AND/OR SOFTWARE ("SOFTWARE"), YOU UNEQUIVOCALLY ACCEPT, AND
AGREE TO BE BOUND BY, ALL OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF
YOU DO NOT AGREE, DO NOT DOWNLOAD, INSTALL, COPY, DISTRIBUTE OR USE THE DATA
FILES OR SOFTWARE.

    COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE

    Copyright Â© 1991-2013 Unicode, Inc. All rights reserved. Distributed under
the Terms of Use in http://www.unicode.org/copyright.html.

    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of the Unicode data files and any associated documentation (the "Data
Files") or Unicode software and any associated documentation (the "Software")
to deal in the Data Files or Software without restriction, including without
limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, and/or
sell copies of the Data Files or Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Data Files or Software are furnished to do so, provided that (a) the above
copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear with all copies of the
Data Files or Software, (b) both the above copyright notice(s) and this
permission notice appear in associated documentation, and (c) there is clear
notice in each modified Data File or in the Software as well as in the
documentation associated with the Data File(s) or Software that the data or
software has been modified.

    THE DATA FILES AND SOFTWARE ARE PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD
PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR HOLDERS INCLUDED IN
THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR
PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS
ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THE
DATA FILES OR SOFTWARE.

    Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder shall
not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other
dealings in these Data Files or Software without prior written authorization
of the copyright holder.

>>> zlib license
/* zlib.h -- interface of the 'zlib' general purpose compression library
  version 1.2.11, January 15th, 2017

  Copyright (C) 1995-2017 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler

  This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied
  warranty.  In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages
  arising from the use of this software.

  Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose,
  including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it
  freely, subject to the following restrictions:

  1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not
     claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software
     in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be
     appreciated but is not required.
  2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be
     misrepresented as being the original software.
  3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.

  Jean-loup Gailly        Mark Adler
  jloup@gzip.org          madler@alumni.caltech.edu


  The data format used by the zlib library is described by RFCs (Request for
  Comments) 1950 to 1952 in the files http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1950
  (zlib format), rfc1951 (deflate format) and rfc1952 (gzip format).
*/


Copyright (C) 1992-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Tim Moore (moore@cs.utah.edu) based on sparc.
Copyright (C) 2019 Yoshinori Sato Based on 
Copyright 2009-2021 The Go Authors
Copyright 2009-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Sebastian Pop <sebastian.pop@amd.com> and Tobias Grosser <grosser@fim.uni-passau.de>
Copyright 2001-2004 Free Software Foundation Inc. Simos Xenitellis <simos@hellug.gr>
Copyright 2018-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Nicolas Koenig
Copyright 2001-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Bo Thorsen <bo@suse.de>
Copyright 2000-2007 Lucent Technologies Inc. and others
Copyright 2013-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andrew Sutton (andrew.n.sutton@gmail.com)
Copyright 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Neil Booth
Copyright (C) 2004-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Based on code by Michael P. Hayes (m.hayes@elec.canterbury.ac.nz) 
Copyright 2014 Jason King. License
Copyright 2009-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Georg-Johann Lay <avr@gjlay.de>
Copyright (C) 1999-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Mumit Khan <khan@xraylith.wisc.edu>. Modified and moved to separate file by Danny Smith 
Copyright 2011-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Marvell Inc
Copyright (c) 2011-2012 2017 Qualcomm Atheros Inc. 
Copyright 1998-2010 Gilles Vollant
Copyright 1995-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Pieter J. Schoenmakers <tiggr@es.ele.tue.nl>
Copyright (c) 2016 2018 Krzesimir Nowak <qdlacz@gmail.com> 
Copyright 1995-2017 Jean-loup Gailly detect
Copyright 2010-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Bernd Schmidt <bernds@codesourcery.com>
Copyright 2011-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by AdaCore
Copyright (C) 2014 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by David Malcolm <dmalcolm@redhat.com>. 
Copyright (C) 2002 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andreas Bauer <baueran@in.tum.de> 
Copyright 2003-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Nicolas Pitre (nico@fluxnic.net)
Copyright (c) 1996-1998 John D. Polstra. All rights reserved. 
Copyright (C) 2015-2020 Free Software Foundation Inc. -- -- -- -- S 
Copyright 1996-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by CodeSourcery LLC
Copyright (C) 1996-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ian Lance Taylor <ian@cygnus.com>. 
Copyright (C) 2020 Nathan Sidwell nathan@acm.org 
Copyright 1997-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Jason Merrill <jason@cygnus.com>
Copyright (C) 1989-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Gavin Koch (gavin@cygnus.com). 
Copyright 2013-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Ian Lance Taylor Google and David Edelsohn IBM
Copyright (C) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2012 Free Software Foundation Originally by Alexandre Oliva <aoliva@redhat.com> Modified for LTO bootstrap by Richard Biener <rguenther@suse.de> 
Copyright 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Vladimir Makarov <vmakarov@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 1999 2000 2002 National Research Council of Canada. 
Copyright (C) 2002 Free Software Foundation Contributed by Kriang Lerdsuwanakij <lerdsuwa@users.sourceforge.net> Split into pieces for binary compatibility testing October 
Copyright 1996-2003 Free Software Foundation Inc. Taken from GNU libtool
Copyright 2015-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by FTDI <support@ftdi.com>
Copyright (C) 1987-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Benjamin Chelf <chelf@codesourcery.com> 
Copyright 2014-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by John Marino <gnugcc@marino.st>
Copyright 2019-2020 Nathan Sidwell nathan@acm.org License Apache
Copyright 1989-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by A. Lichnewsky (lich@inria.inria.fr). Changed by Michael Meissner (meissner@osf.org)
Copyright 2016-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Martin Sebor <msebor@redhat.com>
Copyright 2000-2007 Vita Nuova Holdings Ltd
Copyright (c) 2012 Thorsten Glaser 
Copyright (C) 2004-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Devang Patel <dpatel@apple.com> 
Copyright (C) 1999-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Vladimir Makarov <vmakarov@cygnus.com>. 
Copyright 1994-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Michael K. Gschwind (mike@vlsivie.tuwien.ac.at)
Copyright (c) 1996-2003 Red Hat Inc. Target configuration macros for SuperH - SHmedia. 
Copyright (C) 2003-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Updated by CodeSourcery LLC. 
Copyright 2014-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Mentor Graphics
Copyright 2000-2001 John Hornkvist
Copyright (C) 2006-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Dorit Nuzman <dorit@il.ibm.com> 
Copyright 2013-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Marek Polacek <polacek@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 1998 2012 Andreas Schwab 
Copyright 1991 Per Bothner
Copyright 2002, 2007 Bo Thorsen <bo@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2000-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Fritz Reese <foreese@gcc.gnu.org> and Steven G. Kargl <kargl@gcc.gnu.org> 
Copyright (C) 2019-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Thomas Knig <tkoenig@gcc.gnu.org> 
Copyright 2007-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Paul Thomas and Brooks Moses
Copyright (C) 2018-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Stafford Horne based on other ports. 
Copyright (C) 1992-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ron Guilmette (rfg@netcom.com). Additional changes by David V. Henkel-Wallace (gumby@cygnus.com). 
Copyright 1993-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written By Fred Fish Nov
Copyright (c) 1996-2003 Red Hat Inc. Target configuration macros for IA-
Copyright 1992-2012, 2015 AdaCore
Copyright 1999-2006 Yasushi Saito--
Copyright 2000 Free Software Foundation Contributed by Alexandre Oliva <aoliva@cygnus.com>
Copyright 2002-2003 Free Software Foundation Origin PR
Copyright (C) 2014-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Based on lib2divQI.
Copyright (C) 2018-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Daniel Celis Garza <celisdanieljr@gmail.com> 
Copyright (c) 2013 Imagination Technologies Ltd. Target configuration macros for Meta 
Copyright 1999-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Gabriel Dos Reis <gdr@codesourcery.com>
Copyright 1991-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by ARM Ltd
Copyright (C) 1999-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Mumit Khan <khan@xraylith.wisc.edu>. 
Copyright 2017-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Google
Copyright 2007 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ollie Wild <aaw@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2006-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Peter Steinmetz (steinmtz@us.ibm.com) 
Copyright 1995-2017 Jean-loup Gailly
Copyright 2000-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written By Timothy Wall
Copyright 1991-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ron Guilmette (rfg@monkeys.com)
Copyright 2008-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Rafael Avila de Espindola (espindola@google.com)
Copyright (c) 1996-2003 Red Hat Inc. Target configuration macros for 
Copyright 2002-2004 Dmitriy Anisimkov -- -- -- --
Copyright 2012-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by KPIT Cummins Infosystems Ltd
Copyright (C) 2005-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Geoffrey Keating. 
Copyright (C) 1996-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by David S. Miller (davem@caip.rutgers.edu) 
Copyright (C) 2012-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andes Technology Corporation.for NDS32. 
Copyright 2008-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Anthony Green
Copyright 1989, 1993, 1995, 2007-2021 FSF
Copyright 2004 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed and written by Nathanael Nerode. 
Copyright 2008-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Jan Sjodin <jan.sjodin@amd.com> and Sebastian Pop <sebastian.pop@amd.com>
Copyright 2005 Free Software Foundation contributed by Alexandre Oliva <aoliva@redhat.com> inspired in the failure reported in Red Hat bugzilla 
Copyright (C) 2011-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Uros Bizjak <ubizjak@gmail.com> 
Copyright 2010-2014, 2017-2019 License
Copyright 2005-2018 Sean Kelly
Copyright 2008-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Doug Kwan <dougkwan@google.com>
Copyright 1992-2020 Free Software Foundation Inc. -- -- -- --
Copyright (C) 2005-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Paolo Bonzini and Steven Bosscher. 
Copyright 2005 Free Software Foundation by Alexandre Oliva <aoliva@redhat.com> based on https bugzilla.redhat.com beta show
Copyright 1996-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Joel Sherrill (joel@OARcorp.com)
Copyright 2014-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Originally contributed by David Malcolm <dmalcolm@redhat.com>
Copyright Kai Nacke 2012
Copyright 2011-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Kostya Serebryany <kcc@google.com>
Copyright 1994-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Eric Youngdale. Modified for stabs-in-ELF by H.J. Lu
Copyright (c) 1996-2003 Red Hat Inc. Target configuration macros for Alpha. 
Copyright 1997-1999 Vita Nuova Ltd
Copyright 2019-2020 Unicode
Copyright 2003-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Kejia Zhao <kejia_zh@yahoo.com.cn>
Copyright 1989-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by James Clark (jjc@jclark.uucp) Rewritten by Fred Fish (fnf@cygnus.com) for ARM and Lucid demangling
Copyright (C) 2004-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Apple Inc. 
Copyright (C) 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Neil Booth May 
Copyright 2004-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Steven G. Kargl <kargls@comcast.net>
Copyright 1998-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Axis Communications. Written by Hans-Peter Nilsson
Copyright Robert burner Schadek 2013
Copyright 1986-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Per Bothner
Copyright (C) 2019-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Major hacks by Aldy Hernandez <aldyh@redhat.com> and Andrew MacLeod <amacleod@redhat.com>. 
Copyright 1996 treaty adopted on
Copyright (C) 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ben Elliston <bje@redhat.com> and Andrew MacLeod <amacleod@redhat.com> 
Copyright 1995-2017 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler .LP
Copyright 2011-2012 Jonas Drewsen
Copyright (C) 1998-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Daniel Berlin (dan@cgsoftware.com). Re-implemented in C
Copyright (C) 2014-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Based on lib2divSI.
Copyright 2013 The Written Word Inc. -
Copyright (C) 2010-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Tobias Burnus <burnus@net-b.de> 
Copyright 1998-2010 Daniel Stenberg <daniel@haxx.se> et al
Copyright (C) 2002 Free Software Foundation Contributed by Matt Austern <austern@apple.com> 
Copyright 1991-2020 Free Software Foundation Inc. -- -- -- -- GNARL is free software
Copyright 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Major work done by Sebastian Pop <s.pop@laposte.net> Diego Novillo <dnovillo@redhat.com> and Jason Merrill <jason@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2008-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Originally written by CodeSourcery for VFP. 
Copyright (c) 1998 2001 2007 2008 2011 2014 Red Hat 
Copyright 2006-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Carlos O'Donell <carlos@codesourcery.com>
Copyright (C) 2013-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Manuel Lopez-Ibanez <manu@gcc.gnu.org> 
Copyright 2012-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ilya Enkovich
copyright (C) 1991-2011 Thomas G. Lane Guido Vollbeding. All Rights Reserved except as specified below. 
Copyright (c) 1996-2004 Red Hat Inc. Target configuration macros for FR-V 
Copyright  2011 Daniel Marschall License 
Copyright 2005 Axis Communications AB
Copyright (C) 2016-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Claudiu Zissulescu (claziss@synopsys.com) 
Copyright (c) 2001 David E. O'Brien Portions 
Copyright 2002 Free Software Foundation Contributed by Jason Merrill and Alexandre Oliva 
Copyright (C) 2016-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Claudiu Zissulescu <claziss@synopsys.com> 
Copyright 1984-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc
Copyright 2007-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Richard Guenther <rguenther@suse.de>
Copyright 2011-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Walter Lee (walt@tilera.com)
Copyright (C) 2014-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Dimitar Dimitrov <dimitar@dinux.eu> Based on the NIOS2 GCC port. 
Copyright 2009-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Cary Coutant <ccoutant@google.com>
Copyright 2011-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Georg-Johann Lay (avr@gjlay.de)
Copyright (C) 1995-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Richard Earnshaw (rearnsha@armltd.co.uk). 
Copyright 2004 Scott James Remnant <scott@netsplit.com>. dnl
Copyright (c) 2021 D Language Foundation Authors Iain Buclaw 
Copyright  2002 OOPSLA. 
Copyright (C) 2001-2005 Quantum-ESPRESSO group This file is distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License. See the file 
Copyright (C) 1995 1996 1997 2003 2004 2005 2007 2009 Free Software Foundation Inc. written by Ulrich Drepper <drepper@gnu.ai.mit.edu> June 
Copyright (C) 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Aldy Hernandez <aldy@quesejoda.com>. Shamelessly stolen from the Java front end. 
Copyright (C) 2007-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by CodeSourcery Inc. www.codesourcery.com 
Copyright 1998-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Axis Communications
Copyright 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Zack Weinberg <zack@codesourcery.com
Copyright (c) 1986 by University of Toronto. Written by Henry Spencer. Not derived from licensed software. 
Copyright (C) 1999 Free Software Foundation by Alexandre Oliva <oliva@lsd.ic.unicamp.br> Simplified from libg
Copyright 1995-1999 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Ulrich Drepper <drepper@gnu.org>
Copyright (C) 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Tobias Schl uter 
Copyright (C) 2002 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Michael Matz 
Copyright (C) 2007-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Danny Smith <dannysmith@users.sourceforge.net> 
Copyright (c) 1999 Free Software Foundation. Contributed by Zack Weinberg who made it up all by himself. 
Copyright 2002-2008, 2012 Kaz Kojima
Copyright (C) 2008-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Daniel Franke. 
Copyright 2000 Hewlett Packard Co
Copyright 2001 Stephen L. Moshier (moshier@na-net.onrl.gov)
Copyright 2004-2005, 2007, 2009 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Scott James Remnant
Copyright 1999-2021 The D Language Foundation
copyright date with 2004
Copyright 2011-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Dmitry Vyukov <dvyukov@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2012-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Lawrence Crowl. 
Copyright 2006-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by CodeSourcery
Copyright 2006 The MathWorks Inc. 
Copyright 1996-2014 Free Software Foundation Inc. Originally written by Fran cois Pinard <pinard@iro.umontreal.ca>
Copyright 2020-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Steven G. Kargl <kargl@gcc.gnu.org> and Fritz Reese <foreese@gcc.gnu.org>
Copyright 2005-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Analog Devices
Copyright (C) 2001-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Adapted from 
Copyright 2012-2013 Martin Nowak
Copyright 2003-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andrew MacLeod <amacleod@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 1996-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Eddie C. Dost (ecd@skynet.be) 
Copyright (C) 2001-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by matthew green <mrg@eterna.com.au> 
Copyright 2005-2007 C H Forsyth (forsyth@terzarima.net) Revisions
Copyright (C) 2007-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ben Elliston (bje@au.ibm.com) and Peter Bergner (bergner@vnet.ibm.com). 
Copyright 2000-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Paul Brook
Copyright (C) 1998-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Joern Rennecke 
Copyright (C) 2011-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Dimitar Dimitrov <dimitar@dinux.eu> Based on c6x c6x-abi.
Copyright 2010-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Nicola Pero <nicola.pero@meta-innovation.com>
Copyright 1991-2017 Florida State University -- --
Copyright (C) 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Paul Brook <paul@nowt.org and Steven Bosscher <s.bosscher@student.tudelft.nl> 
Copyright (C) 2013-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by David Edelsohn IBM. 
Copyright (C) 1991 by Pipeline Associates Inc. All rights reserved. Permission is granted to do anything you want with this file commercial or otherwise provided this message remains intact. So there 
Copyright (C) 2000-2006 Erik Andersen <andersen@uclibc.org> 
Copyright (c) 2012-2014 Sourcery Inc. All rights reserved. 
Copyright 2000, 2002, 2007-2008 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Theodore.Papadopoulo
Copyright (C) 2006-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Georges-Andre Silber <Georges-Andre.Silber@ensmp.fr> and Sebastian Pop <sebastian.pop@amd.com>. 
Copyright 2012-2015 Dan Nicholson <dbn.lists@gmail.com> dnl dnl
Copyright 2000-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Hans-Peter Nilsson (hp@bitrange.com)
Copyright 2011 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Jakub Jelinek <jakub@redhat.com>
Copyright 2014-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Dehao Chen (dehao@google.com)
Copyright (C) 1993-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Joern Rennecke <joern.rennecke@st.com>. 
Copyright (c) 2010 CodeSourcery 
Copyright (c) 2010 Lars T. Kyllingstad. License 
Copyright 1992-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Steve Chamberlain (sac@cygnus.com) Jim Wilson (wilson@cygnus.com) and Doug Evans (dje@cygnus.com)
Copyright 2012-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Altera and Mentor Graphics Inc
Copyright 2019-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Aldy Hernandez <aldyh@redhat.com> and Andrew MacLeod <amacleod@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2012 2020 Free Software Foundation Originally by Alexandre Oliva <aoliva@redhat.com> 
Copyright (C) 2015-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Dmitry Melnik <dm@ispras.ru> 
Copyright (C) 2002 FPMD group This file is distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License. See the file 
Copyright 2013-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andreas Krebbel <krebbel@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright 2018-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Michael Meissner (meissner@linux.ibm.com)
Copyright (C) 2010-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Thomas Knig. 
Copyright (c) 2015-2019 Nicira Inc. 
Copyright 1989-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ron Guilmette (rfg@segfault.us.com)
Copyright (C) 1993-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Stephen L. Moshier (moshier@world.std.com). Re-written by Richard Henderson <rth@redhat.com> 
Copyright (C) 2002 Free Software Foundation Contributed by Roger Sayle <roger@eyesopen.com> 
Copyright 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Paul Brook <paul@nowt.org> and Steven Bosscher <s.bosscher@student.tudelft.nl>
2003 copyright date. 
Copyright 2010 Faraday Technology Corp
Copyright (c) 2020 Jason Merrill <jason@redhat.com> 
Copyright (C) 2019 Yoshinori Sato Based on rx.
Copyright 2003-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Jan Hubicka
Copyright (C) 1997 - 2002 Makoto Matsumoto and Takuji Nishimura -- -- All rights reserved. -- -- -- 
Copyright 2004, 2006 Bruce Ellis
Copyright 1998, 2007 Brian Raiter <breadbox@muppetlabs.com>
Copyright (C) 2008-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Based on linux-atomic.
Copyright 1996-2010 Julian Seward <jseward@bzip.org>
Copyright 1990-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by James E. Wilson UC Berkeley Cygnus Support based on some ideas from Dain Samples of UC Berkeley
Copyright (C) 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Lowering of expressions contributed by Sebastian Pop <s.pop@laposte.net> Re-written to support lowering of whole function trees documentation 
Copyright 1993-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Philip Blundell <philb@gnu.org>
Copyright 2018-2020 D Language Foundation
Copyright 2007-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Aldy Hernandez <aldyh@redhat.com>
Copyright 2014, 2016 Karlson2k
Copyright 2002-2003 Free Software Foundation Contributed by Gabriel Dos Reis <gdr@integrable-solutions.net>
Copyright (C) 2010-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Jan Hubicka <jh@suse.cz> 
Copyright (c) 2002 2003 2009 Free Software Foundation Inc. based on darwin
Copyright 1999-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Hartmut Penner (hpenner@de.ibm.com) and Ulrich Weigand (uweigand@de.ibm.com) and
Copyright 1998-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ulrich Drepper <drepper@cygnus.com>
(C) 1998 2007 Free Software Foundation Originally by Alexandre Oliva <oliva@lsd.ic.unicamp.br> 
Copyright 2018 Microsoft Corporation
(C) Copyright Jeremy Siek 2000
Copyright 2004 Ami Tavory and Vladimir Dreizin IBM-HRL
Copyright 2003-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by CodeSourcery LLC
Copyright 2010-2019 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Francois-Xavier Coudert <fxcoudert@gcc.gnu.org>
Copyright (C) 2014-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Based on lib2divHI.
Copyright 2003-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Kelley Cook June
Copyright 2005-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Aldy Hernandez <aldy@quesejoda.com>
Copyright 1992 & Current
Copyright 1998-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. . Contributed by Axis Communications. Written by Hans-Peter Nilsson
copyright and license notices. ChangeLog-1993-2007
Copyright (C) 2015-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Yoshinori Sato <ysato@users.sourceforge.jp> 
Copyright 2011-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Nicola Pero <nicola.pero@meta-innovation.com>
Copyright 1994-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Richard Earnshaw (richard.earnshaw@arm.com)
Copyright (c) Walter Bright 2014
Copyright 1987-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Hacked by Michael Tiemann (tiemann@cygnus.com)
Copyright (c) 2016-2017 Erik Stromdahl <erik.stromdahl@gmail.com> 
Copyright 2004-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Kenneth Zadeck <zadeck@naturalbridge.com>
Copyright (C) 2000-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Michael Matz (matz@ifh.de). 
Copyright (C) 1996-2003 Gerard Jungman 
Copyright (C) 2002 Free Software Foundation Origin jmr@fulcrummicro.com Contributed by Gabriel Dos Reis <gdr@integrable-solutions.net> 
Copyright 1991-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Fred Fish
Copyright (C) 1999-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Philip Blundell <pb@nexus.co.uk> 
Copyright (C) 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Lars Segerlund <seger@linuxmail.org> Steve Kargl and Janne Blomqvist. 
Copyright (c) 2001 - 2002 Pavel EvilOne Minayev 
Copyright 2012-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andreas Krebbel (Andreas.Krebbel@de.ibm.com)
Copyright (C) 2009-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Gerald Pfeifer <gerald@pfeifer.com>. 
Copyright 2008-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Thomas Koenig <tkoenig@gcc.gnu.org> based on unpack
Copyright (C) 1995-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by David Henkel-Wallace Cygnus Support (gumby@cygnus.com) Rewritten by Adam Nemet LynuxWorks Inc. 
Copyright 2003 Cosmin Truta
Copyright 1999-2014 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Tom Tromey <tromey@cygnus.com>
Copyright (C) 2009 2011 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Paolo Bonzini. 
Copyright (C) 2000-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by James E. Wilson <wilson@cygnus.com>. 
Copyright (C) 2000 Free Software Foundation. by William Cohen <wcohen@redhat.com> 
Copyright (C) 2000 Free Software Foundation Contributed by Nathan Sidwell <nathan@codesourcery.com> 
Copyright 2007-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Peter Bergner <bergner@vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright 1998 Geoffrey Keating
COPYRIGHT 1999 SPACKMAN & HENDRICKSON INC. REAL
Copyright 2010-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Tobias Burnus <burnus@net-b.de>
Copyright 1992-1999 The Free Software Foundation
Copyright 2014-2015 Google Inc. contributed by Alexey Sokolov <sokolov@google.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 Russ Allbery <rra@stanford.edu> 
Copyright (C) 1997 - 2002 Makoto Matsumoto and Takuji Nishimura All rights reserved. 
Copyright 2011-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andrew Waterman (andrew@sifive.com)
Copyright 2010-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Nicola Pero
Copyright 1996 L. Peter Deutsch and Jean-Loup Gailly
Copyright 1989-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Mike Stump <mrs@cygnus.com>
Copyright 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Wasabi Systems Inc
Copyright 1994-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributor Joern Rennecke <joern.rennecke@embecosm.com> on behalf of Synopsys Inc
Copyright 2000-2001 Free Software Foundation Contributed by Alexandre Oliva <aoliva@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Dmitry Vyukov <dvyukov@google.com> and Wish Wu <wishwu007@gmail.com> 
Copyright 2004-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Janne Blomqvist
Copyright 2012-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Lawrence Crowl <crowl@google.com>
Copyright 2016-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by David Tolnay (dtolnay@gmail.com). Rewritten by Eduard-Mihai Burtescu (eddyb@lyken.rs) for
Copyright 2000 Free Software Foundation Contributed by Nathan Sidwell
Copyright 2009 Bradley Smith <brad@brad-smith.co.uk>
Copyright 2007 Free Software Foundation Contributed by Ollie Wild <aaw@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2009-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ben Elliston (bje@au.ibm.com) 
Copyright 1996- & Gnatvsn.Current
Copyright (C) 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by David O'Brien <obrien@FreeBSD.org> 
Copyright Masahiro Nakagawa 2010
Copyright 1991-2020 Free Software Foundation Inc. -- -- -- -- GNAT is free software
Copyright (C) 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Jason Merrill <jason@redhat.com> 
Copyright 1996-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Richard Henderson
Copyright 2012-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by C-SKY Microsystems and Mentor Graphics
Copyright (C) 1990-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by James E. Wilson of Cygnus Support. Mangled by Bob Manson of Cygnus Support. 
copyright notices to 2018
Copyright 1997 Borland Corp. and is based on zlib
Copyright 2003 Cosmin Truta. Derived from original sources by Bob Dellaca
Copyright 1996-1999 Silicon Graphics Computer Systems Inc
Copyright (C) 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2007 2010 James Theiler Brian Gough template
Copyright (C) 2007-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Richard Henderson <rth@redhat.com> Ian Lance Taylor <iant@google.com> 
Copyright 2012 Zack Weinberg <zackw@panix.com>
Copyright (C) 2000 Free Software Foundation. Added extra line-breaks to check that diagnostics refer to correct token. --Per Bothner. 
Copyright 2003-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Sebastian Pop <pop@cri.ensmp.fr>
Copyright Jean-loup Gailly Osma Ahvenlampi <Osma.Ahvenlampi@hut.fi>
Copyright (C) 2006-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Sebastian Pop <sebastian.pop@inria.fr>. 
Copyright 2003-2004 Randolph Chung <tausq@debian.org>
Copyright (C) 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Matthew Green (mrg@eterna.com.au). 
Copyright (C) 2013 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Jakub Jelinek Red Hat Inc. 
Copyright (C) 2000 Free Software Foundation Adapted by Nathan Sidwell 
Copyright (c) 2008 Wolfgang Moser http 
Copyright 1999-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Originally contributed by Michael P. Hayes (m.hayes@elec.canterbury.ac.nz mhayes@redhat.com)
Copyright 2011 Plausible Labs Cooperative Inc
Copyright (C) 2000-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andy Vaught & Niels Kristian Bech Jensen 
Copyright 2014-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Kai Tietz <ktietz@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2000 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Mark Mitchell 
Copyright (c) 1996-2003 Red Hat Inc. Target configuration macros for Motorola 68K. 
Copyright 2010-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Ian Lance Taylor Google
Copyright 2003 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Bruno Haible <bruno@clisp.org>
Copyright (C) 1992-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by the Center for Software Science at the University of Utah. 
Copyright 2005-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Ian Lance Taylor <ian@airs.com>
Copyright (C) 2001-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Loren J. Rittle <ljrittle@acm.org> 
Copyright 2008 Michael Paul Bailey <jinxidoru@byu.net>
Copyright (C) 1999-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Kazumoto Kojima <kkojima@rr.iij4u.or.jp> 
Copyright (C) 2005-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Jeff Law <law@redhat.com> 
Copyright (C) 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Paul Brook <paul@nowt.org> and Andy Vaught <andy@xena.eas.asu.edu> 
Copyright 2015 Paul Norman <penorman@mac.com>
Copyright 2013 Roy Stogner <roystgnr@ices.utexas.edu>
Copyright 1983, 1987, 1990, 2014 Regents of the University of California
Copyright (c) 2012 Tilera Corp. Target configuration macros for TILE. 
Copyright 1999-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Charles-Antoine Gauthier (charles.gauthier@iit.nrc.ca)
Copyright 1982, 1986, 1990-1991, 1993, 2014 The Regents of the University of California
Copyright (C) 2008-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Wolfgang Gellerich (gellerich@de.ibm.com). 
Copyright 2008-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Paul Yuan (yingbo.com@gmail.com) and Vinodha Ramasamy (vinodha@google.com)
Copyright (c) 2013 Tensilica Inc. Target configuration macros for XTENSA. 
Copyright 2010-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Theobroma Systems Design und Consulting GmbH
Copyright 2012-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Jonah Graham (jgraham@altera.com) Will Reece (wreece@altera.com) and Jeff DaSilva (jdasilva@altera.com)
Copyright 2015-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Mentor Embedded
Copyright 2007-2020 AdaCore -- -- -- --
Copyright (C) 1996-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Richard Henderson (rth@tamu.edu). 
Copyright (C) 1992-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Chris Smith (csmith@convex.com). Heavily modified by Michael Meissner (meissner@cygnus.com) 
Copyright 2014-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Rong Xu <xur@google.com>
Copyright 2007-2010, 2013 Andrei Alexandrescu
Copyright (C) 2006-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Sebastian Pop <pop@cri.ensmp.fr> Zdenek Dvorak <dvorakz@suse.cz> and Razya Ladelsky <razya@il.ibm.com>. 
Copyright 1998-2010 Gilles Vollant Even Rouault Mathias Svensson
Copyright 2000-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Steven Bosscher
Copyright 2015 Jacob Carlborg
Copyright (C) 1997-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by John Carr (jfc@mit.edu). 
Copyright 2012-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Chung-Lin Tang <cltang@codesourcery.com>
Copyright 2001-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Jan Hubicka <jh@suse.cz> based on linux
Copyright 2009-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Anatoly Sokolov (aesok@post.ru)
Copyright 1992-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Michael Tiemann (tiemann@cygnus.com) of Cygnus Support and Tim Moore (moore@defmacro.cs.utah.edu) of the Center for
Copyright 2000-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Richard Henderson <rth@cygnus.com>
Copyright (c) 2009-2011 David Simcha. License 
Copyright 2000-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andy Vaught
Copyright 1996-2001, 2003-2009 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Gordon Matzigkeit
Copyright 1986 University of Toronto. -- --
Copyright 2013 Mentor Graphics
Copyright 2019-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Robin Dapp (rdapp@linux.ibm.com)
Copyright (C) 1993-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Kresten Krab Thorup and Dennis Glatting. 
Copyright 1995-1997 C H Forsyth (forsyth@terzarima.net)
Copyright 2001-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Bob Wilson (bwilson@tensilica.com) at Tensilica
Copyright (C) 2015-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Imagination Technologies Ltd. 
Copyright (C) 2018-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by STMicroelectronics. 
Copyright 1999-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Hartmut Penner (hpenner@de.ibm.com) and Ulrich Weigand (uweigand@de.ibm.com)
(C) 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2017 Free Software Foundation Originally by Gerald Pfeifer <gerald@pfeifer.com> August 
Copyright 2011-2012 Johannes Pfau
Copyright 2004-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Nathan Sidwell <nathan@codesourcery.com> Re-implemented in C
Copyright 2006-2008 Free Software Foundation Inc. PR preprocessor
Copyright 2011, 2016 David Nadlinger
Copyright (C) 2015-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Marcin Kocielnicki <koriakin@0x04.net>. 
Copyright 2009-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Michael Meissner <meissner@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright 2004 Renesas Technology
Copyright (C) 2012-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Bill Schmidt IBM <wschmidt@linux.ibm.com> 
Copyright 2004-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Richard Henderson <rth@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2008 David Daney 
Copyright 2010-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Mingfeng Wu based on ARM926EJ-S Pipeline Description
Copyright Dmitry Olshansky 2011
Copyright (C) 2003 Free Software Foundation. Check that size-optimizations for move insns 
copyright and license notices. ChangeLog ChangeLog-2005
Copyright 1998-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Mark Mitchell (mark@markmitchell.com)
Copyright (C) 2007-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Saurabh Verma (saurabh.verma@celunite.com) on behalf os Synopsys Inc. 
Copyright 2001 Stephen L. Moshier <moshier@na-net.ornl.gov> and are Inc herein by
Copyright (C) 1998-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Denis Chertykov <chertykov@gmail.com> 
Copyright (c) 2019 Enji Cooper <yaneurabeya@gmail.com> 
Copyright (C) 2018-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Daniel Celis Garza <celisdanieljr@gmail.com> and Paul Thomas <pault@gcc.gnu.org> 
Copyright 2020-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Nicolas Bertolo <nicolasbertolo@gmail.com>
Copyright 2007-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Sebastian Pop <sebastian.pop@amd.com>
Copyright 2001-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by David E. O'Brien <obrien@FreeBSD.org> and BSDi
Copyright 1993-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Steve Chamberlain (sac@cygnus.com). Improved by Jim Wilson (wilson@cygnus.com)
Copyright (C) 2014-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Martin Liska 
Copyright (C) 2007-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Pascal Obry <obry@adacore.com> 
Copyright (C) 2011-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ian Lance Taylor Google. 
Copyright 2001-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Benjamin Kosnik <bkoz@redhat.com>
Copyright 2012 Google Inc. Package foo does bar. 
Copyright (C) 2010-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Adapted from tree-pretty-print.
Copyright (c) 2011 Timothy Wall 
Copyright 1996, 2006-2007, 2010 to
Copyright 2010-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Anthony Green (green@moxielogic.com)
Copyright 2002 Roger Sayle
Copyright (c) 2008 Stepan Kasal <kasal@ucw.cz> 
Copyright 2006-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Franois-Xavier Coudert
Copyright 2019-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Linaro Ltd
Copyright 2014 Sebastian Macke <sebastian@macke.de>
Copyright (C) 1999-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Richard Earnshaw (rearnsha@arm.com) Minor hacks by Nick Clifton (nickc@cygnus.com) 
Copyright (C) 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Aldy Hernandez (aldy@quesejoda.com) 
Copyright 1993, 2004, 2011 Sun Microsystems Inc
Copyright (C) 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andy Vaught Namelist transfer functions contributed by Paul Thomas 
Copyright (C) 1992-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Gary Funck (gary@intrepid.com). Derived from DWARF 
Copyright (C) 2004-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Bud Davis and Janne Blomqvist. 
Copyright 2012-2013 Adil Baig
Copyright 2010-2013 Benjamin Thaut
Copyright (c) 2018 Free Software Foundation Contributed by Bernhard Reutner-Fischer <aldot@gcc.gnu.org> Inspired by bloat-
Copyright (C) 2011-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Iain Sandoe <iains@gcc.gnu.org> 
Copyright 2012-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Pekka Jaaskelainen <pekka.jaaskelainen@parmance.com> for General Processor Tech
Copyright (C) 1994 Stephen L. Moshier (moshier@world.std.com). Authors Stephen L. Moshier 
Copyright 2008-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Edmar Wienskoski (edmar@freescale.com)
Copyright (C) 2020-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Fujitsu Ltd. 
Copyright 1999-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Mark Mitchell <mark@codesourcery.com>
Copyright 2016 Sociomantic Labs GmbH License 
copyright notice Add 2004
Copyright (c) 2000 2001 Free Software Foundation. Distilled from 
Copyright 1996-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Bob Manson <manson@cygnus.com>. Completely remangled by Nathan Sidwell <nathan@codesourcery.com>
Copyright (C) 2008-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Based on code contributed by CodeSourcery for ARM EABI Linux. Modifications for PA Linux by Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de> 
Copyright 2013 Miodrag Vallat. <miod@openbsd.org>
Copyright (C) 2001-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by David E. O'Brien <obrien@FreeBSD.org>. 
Copyright 2003-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by CodeSourcery
Copyright 2015 NVIDIA Corporation 
Copyright (C) 1997-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Russell King <rmk92@ecs.soton.ac.uk>. 
Copyright 2019-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Jozef Lawrynowicz <jozef.l@mittosystems.com>
Copyright 1984, 1987, 1989, 1992, 1994, 2000-2001 Stephen L. Moshier
Copyright 1995-2010 Jean-loup Gailly Brian Raiter and Gilles Vollant
Copyright Sociomantic Labs GmbH 2016
Copyright 1997-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Red Hat Inc
Copyright 2000-2014 the authors
Copyright 2011 Daniel Richard G. <skunk@iSKUNK.ORG>
Copyright 2001-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Xinliang David Li <davidxl@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2014-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Based on lib2bitcountHI.
Copyright 2018-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Thomas Knig <tk@tkoenig.net>
Copyright (c) 2012 Alan Hourihane 
Copyright 1997-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Richard Henderson (rth@cygnus.com) and Jakub Jelinek (jj@ultra.linux.cz)
Copyright 1995-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Cygnus Support
Copyright (C) 2011-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andi Kleen. 
Copyright 2010-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andrew Jenner <andrew@codesourcery.com> Contributed by Bernd Schmidt <bernds@codesourcery.com>
Copyright 2008-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Ian Lance Taylor <iant@google.com>
Copyright 2008-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Richard Henderson <rth@redhat.com> and Aldy Hernandez <aldyh@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 1995-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ronald F. Guilmette <rfg@monkeys.com>. 
Copyright 1988, 2000, 2002 Free Software Foundation written by Doug Lea (dl@rocky.oswego.edu)
Copyright 2000-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Zack Weinberg Mar
Copyright 2009-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Simon Baldwin <simonb@google.com>
Copyright 1996-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Galen C. Hunt (gchunt@cs.rochester.edu)
Copyright (C) 2006-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Nigel Stephens <nigel@mips.com> 
Copyright 1984, 1991 Stephen L. Moshier Adapted for glibc October
copyrights-brig 2017-2021
Copyright 2003-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Kaveh R. Ghazi <ghazi@caip.rutgers.edu>
Copyright (C) 2003-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by P.J. Darcy (darcypj@us.ibm.com) Hartmut Penner (hpenner@de.ibm.com) and 
Copyright (C) 1994-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Doug Evans dje@cygnus.com. 
Copyright (c) 2013 Synposys Inc. 
Copyright 2000 Addison Wesley Longman Inc
Copyright (C) 2011-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Tom de Vries (tom@codesourcery.com) 
Copyright 2011 Kyle Moffett
Copyright 1995-2020 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Ulrich Drepper <drepper@cygnus.com>
Copyright 2016 Sociomantic Labs
Copyright (C) 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andy Vaught Namelist output contributed by Paul Thomas 
Copyright (c) 1998 Cygnus Solutions 
Copyright 2007-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by CodeSourcery Inc
Copyright 1992-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Michael Tiemann (tiemann@cygnus.com) Enhanced by and currently maintained by Jim Wilson (wilson@cygnus.com)
Copyright 1990-2000 Info-ZIP
Copyright 1993-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Kresten Krab Thorup
Copyright 2002 Free Software Foundation Origin C
Copyright 1999-2021 gfortran
Copyright 1998-1999 Greg Colvin and Beman Dawes
Copyright (C) 2010-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Christian Borntraeger (Christian.Borntraeger@de.ibm.com) Andreas Krebbel (Andreas.Krebbel@de.ibm.com) 
Copyright 2001 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Jason Merrill
Copyright 1992-2020 AdaCore -- -- -- -- GNAT is free software
Copyright (c) 2007-2011 Atheros Communications Inc. 
Copyright (C) 1992-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Richard Kenner (kenner@vlsi1.ultra.nyu.edu). Hacked by Michael Tiemann (tiemann@cygnus.com). 
Copyright (C) 1991-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Based on svr4.
Copyright (C) 2001-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by David S. Miller (davem@redhat.com) 
Copyright (C) 1997-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Scott Christley <scottc@net-community.com> 
Copyright 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Zack Weinberg <zack@codesourcery.com>
Copyright (C) 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andy Vaught Namelist input contributed by Paul Thomas 
Copyright 2013-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by David Malcolm <dmalcolm@redhat.com>
Copyright 2017-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Nathan Sidwell <nathan@acm.org> while at FaceBook
Copyright (C) 2003 Free Software Foundation. PR target 
Copyright 1996-2012, 2014 Red Hat Inc
Copyright 2002 Free Software Foundation Inc Contributed by Nathan Sidwell <nathan@codesourcery.com>
Copyright 2009-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Kenneth Zadeck <zadeck@naturalbridge.com> Re-implemented by Diego Novillo <dnovillo@google.com>
Copyright 2003-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Sebastian Pop <s.pop@laposte.net>
Copyright 1998-2010 Gilles Vollant -
Copyright (C) 2009-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Sebastian Pop <sebastian.pop@amd.com> and Konrad Trifunovic <konrad.trifunovic@inria.fr>. 
Copyright (C) 2020-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Kito Cheng <kito.cheng@sifive.com> 
Copyright (C) 1993-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Motorola. 
Copyright (C) 1995-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Philip Blundell <philb@gnu.org> and Catherine Moore <clm@cygnus.com> 
Copyright 1998-2000, 2002-2004, 2007, 2009-2010 Free Software Foundation Originally by Alexandre Oliva <oliva@dcc.unicamp.br>
Copyright 1999-2020 Digital Mars
Copyright (C) 2018-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Douglas B Rupp 
Copyright 2008 Benjamin Kosnik <bkoz@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Matt Thomas <matt@3am-software.com> 
Copyright (C) 1996 MPEG Software Simulation Group. All Rights Reserved. 
Copyright 2011 Free Software Foundation Inc. License GPLv3
Copyright 2013 IBM
Copyright (C) 2005-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by NEC EL 
Copyright (C) 2016-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Than McIntosh Google. 
Copyright Nemanja Boric 2016
Copyright (C) 2009-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Alan Modra <amodra@gmail.com>. 
Copyright 2010-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Bernd Schmidt <bernds@codesourcery.com> Contributed by CodeSourcery
Copyright 1995-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Eric Youngdale. Modified for stabs-in-ELF by H.J. Lu (hjl@lucon.org)
Copyright 2013-2013 Igor Stepanov
Copyright 2012-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Sriraman Tallam (tmsriram@google.com)
Copyright 1994-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Embecosm on behalf of Adapteva Inc
Copyright 1995 Free Software Foundation Inc... Core was
Copyright (C) 2004-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Janus Weil <janus@gcc.gnu.org>. 
Copyright 2003 years to include
Copyright  1991-2013 Unicode Inc. CLDR data files are interpreted according to the LDML specification 
Copyright (C) 2006 Free Software Foundation Inc. Caslav Ilic <caslav.ilic@gmx.net> 
Copyright (C) 2001 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Jeffrey D. Oldham 
Copyright (C) 2003-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by kejia Zhao 
Copyright 1991-2013 Unicode Inc
Copyright 2013-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Francois-Xavier Coudert <fxcoudert@gcc.gnu.org>
Copyright (C) 1998 Free Software Foundation by Alexandre Oliva <oliva@dcc.unicamp.br> 
Copyright 1995-2017 Mark Adler
Copyright 2012-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Alan Modra IBM
Copyright 2014-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Manuel Lopez-Ibanez
Copyright 1997-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andrew MacLeod <amacleod@cygnus.com> Andrew Haley <aph@cygnus.com>
Copyright (C) 2009-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Arthur Loiret <aloiret@debian.org> 
Copyright (C) 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by John David Anglin (dave.anglin@nrc.ca). 
Copyright (C) 2010-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Split out from tree-ssa-ccp.
Copyright 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andy Vaught and Paul Brook <paul@nowt.org>
Copyright 2008-2009 Janice Caron
Copyright 1998-1999 ISO
Copyright 2005-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Sebastian Huber <sebastian.huber@embedded-brains.de>
Copyright 1994-1999 Lucent Technologies Inc
Copyright 2009-2010 Mathias Svensson
Copyright 2015-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Martin Liska <mliska@suse.cz>
Copyright 2001-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Douglas B. Rupp (rupp@gnat.com)
Copyright (C) 1995-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Tim Moore (moore@defmacro.cs.utah.edu) 
Copyright (C) 1997-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ovidiu Predescu (ovidiu@net-community.com). 
Copyright (C) 2012-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Jonah Graham (jgraham@altera.com) and Will Reece (wreece@altera.com). 
Copyright (c) 2002 2009 Free Software Foundation Inc. based on darwin.S by John Hornkvist 
Copyright (C) 2001 2003 2004 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ben Elliston <bje@redhat.com> 
Copyright 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by C.Nettleton J.P.Parkes and P.Garbett
Copyright 1998-2000 Jacques Nomssi Nzali
Copyright 2018 Ulf Adams
Copyright (C) 2003 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Wolfgang Bangerth <bangerth@ticam.utexas.edu> 
Copyright (c) 2013 Imagination Technologies Ltd. 
Copyright (C) 1999-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Wind River Systems. Rewritten by CodeSourcery LLC. 
Copyright 1994-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. dnl
(c) Willem van Schaik 1999
Copyright 2002 Free Software Foundation Contributed by Jason Merrill <jason@redhat.com> 
Copyright 2004 Simon Posnjak
Copyright 2003 Chris Anderson <christop@charm.net> Please
Copyright 1989-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Apple Computer Inc
Copyright 2019-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Arm
Copyright 2000-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Zack Weinberg <zackw@stanford.edu>
copyright notice and use name Free Software Foundation Inc. . ChangeLog ChangeLog-2000
Copyright 2003-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Douglas B Rupp (rupp@gnat.com)
Copyright 2017 Mentor Graphics Corporation 
Copyright 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by David Edelsohn (edelsohn@gnu.org)
Copyright 2007-2008 Even Rouault
Copyright 2008 the respective authors
Copyright 2018-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Stafford Horne
Copyright Robert Klotzner 2012
Copyright (C) 1999-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Steve Ellcey <sje@cup.hp.com> and Reva Cuthbertson <reva@cup.hp.com> 
Copyright 2004-2005, 2007-2009 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Gary V. Vaughan
Copyright 2003-2004 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Matt Austern <austern@apple.com>
Copyright (C) 2005-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ilie Garbacea <ilie@mips.com> Chao-ying Fu <fu@mips.com>. 
Copyright 1995-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written By Michael Meissner
Copyright 1996-2010 Julian R Seward
Copyright (C) 1998-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Catherine Moore <clm@cygnus.com> 
Copyright 2014-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Richard Biener <rguenther@suse.de> and Prathamesh Kulkarni <bilbotheelffriend@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Lifang Zeng <zlf605@hotmail.com> 
Copyright 2002 2007 2009 Free Software Foundation Inc. echo This program is free software you may redistribute it under the echo terms of the GNU General Public License. This program has 
Copyright 2002 Bo Thorsen
Copyright 2010-2016 Intel Corp
Copyright 2016 John David Anglin
Copyright 1986-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Per Bothner
copyright notice to include 2003
Copyright 2012 Brian Aker <brian@tangent.org>
Copyright 1999-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by James E. Wilson <wilson@cygnus.com> and David Mosberger <davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 2000-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Nick Clifton (nickc@redhat.com) 
Copyright (C) 2006-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Paul Thomas 
Copyright (C) 2009 the Initial Developer. All Rights Reserved. 
Copyright 2004-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ayal Zaks and Mustafa Hagog
Copyright (C) 2014-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Roman Gareev <gareevroman@gmail.com>. 
Copyright 2008 Christophe Tournayre <turn3r@users.sourceforge.net>
copyright 1987 1988 1989 john 
Copyright 1995-2016 Jean-loup Gailly Mark Adler
copyrights-go 2010-2021
Copyright 2008 Steven G. Johnson <stevenj@alum.mit.edu>
Copyright 2012-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Adapted from elf
Copyright (C) 1999 Free Software Foundation related to bug report by Leon Bottou <leonb@research.att.com> 
Copyright (C) 2015-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ajit Kumar Agarwal <ajitkum@xilinx.com>. 
Copyright 2008-2009 Jeremie Pelletier
Copyright 2004-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Tobias Schlter
Copyright 2014 Jason King. Distributed
Copyright 2010-2020 AdaCore -- -- -- -- GNARL is free software
Copyright 2001-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Diego Novillo <dnovillo@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 1989-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Michael Tiemann <tiemann@cygnus.com> Rewritten by Mike Stump <mrs@cygnus.com> based upon an 
Copyright (C) 1997-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Mike Stump <mrs@wrs.com>. 
Copyright 1998-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Daniel Berlin (dan@cgsoftware.com)
Copyright (C) 2007-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Kenneth Zadeck (zadeck@naturalbridge.com). 
Copyright (c) 1996-2003 Red Hat Inc. Target configuration macros for MIPS. 
Copyright 2009-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Rafael Espindola <espindola@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2007-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andy Vaught Write float code factoring to this file by Jerry DeLisle 
Copyright 2005-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Daniel Berlin <dberlin@dberlin.org>
Copyright 2012-2013 Xilinx Inc
Copyright 2008 Guido U. Draheim <guidod@gmx.de>
Copyright 2013-2014 Denis Shelomovskij
Copyright (C) 2001-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Originally by Gerald Pfeifer <pfeifer@dbai.tuwien.ac.at> June 
Copyright (C) 1993-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Kresten Krab Thorup Bitfield support by Ovidiu Predescu 
Copyright 1987-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Daniel Berlin <dan@cgsoftware.com>
copyright 1996 Loren P. Meissner -- May be distributed if this line is included. Linked List operations with Pointer to Pointer 
Copyright (C) 2010-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ilya Enkovich (ilya.enkovich@intel.com) 
Copyright (C) 2000-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Benjamin Chelf (chelf@codesourcery.com). 
Copyright 2015 Moritz Klammler <moritz@klammler.eu>
Copyright (c) 2012 Alex Rnne Petersen Distributed under the Boost Software License Version 
Copyright 2014 by Digital Mars License 
Copyright 2004-2005 Mark Adler. --
Copyright 2009-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ian Lance Taylor <iant@google.com>
Copyright (c) 2009 Bradley Smith <brad@brad-smith.co.uk> Target configuration macros for AVR32. 
Copyright (C) 1996-2019 Julian Seward <jseward@acm.org> 
Copyright (C) 1996-2020 Free Software Foundation Inc. -- -- -- -- GARLIC is free software you can redistribute it and or modify it under -- 
Copyright (C) 1994-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Originally contributed by Dave Love (d.love@dl.ac.uk). 
Copyright 2005-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by IBM Corp. Author Mike Cowlishaw
Copyright 2001-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ziemowit Laski <zlaski@apple.com>
Copyright (C) 2001-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by David Mosberger <davidm@hpl.hp.com>. 
Copyright 2020-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by David Cepelik and Jan Hubicka
Copyright (C) 2005-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Richard Henderson <rth@redhat.com> Diego Novillo <dnovillo@redhat.com>. 
Copyright (c) 2011 2014 Anthony Green - 
Copyright (c) 1996-2003 Red Hat Inc. Target configuration macros for SPARC. 
Copyright (C) 2010-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Marcus Shawcroft (marcus.shawcroft@arm.com) 64bit Atomics by Dave Gilbert (david.gilbert@linaro.org) 
Copyright 2012 Alexandre K. I. de Mendonca <alexandre.keunecke@gmail.com> Paulo Pizarro <paulo.pizarro@gmail.com>
Copyright 2001 Stephen L. Moshier <moshier@na-net.ornl.gov>
Copyright 2007 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ollie Wild <aaw@google.com>. define GOT
Copyright (C) 2000-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Adapted from original RTL SSA-CCP by Daniel Berlin <dberlin@dberlin.org> Adapted to GIMPLE trees by Diego Novillo <dnovillo@redhat.com> 
Copyright 2000 Free Software Foundation by Alexandre Oliva <aoliva@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 1998-2009 Free Software Foundation Inc. -- - -- - GNAT is free software you can redistribute it and or modify it under -- 
Copyright 2012-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andes Technology Corp
Copyright (C) 2007-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Charles-Antoine Gauthier (charles.gauthier@nrc.ca). 
Copyright 2001-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Bob Wilson (bob.wilson@acm.org) at Tensilica
Copyright (c) 2013 Imagination Technologies 
Copyright (C) 1987-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Douglas B. Rupp (rupp@gnat.com). Updated by Bernard W. Giroud (bgiroud@users.sourceforge.net). 
Copyright (c) 2004 Renesas Technology. Target configuration macros for M32R. 
Copyright (C) 2009-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Paul Richard Thomas <pault@gcc.gnu.org> and Janus Weil <janus@gcc.gnu.org> 
Copyright 2004-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Robert Millan
Copyright 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Gabriel Dos Reis <gdr@integrable-solutions.net>
Copyright 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Nathan Sidwell <nathan@codesourcery.com>
Copyright 2012-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Mentor Graphics Inc
Copyright 2000-2003 Software Foundation Inc
(C) 2010 Free Software Foundation Written by Ralf Wildenhues <Ralf.Wildenhues@gmx.de>. 
Copyright 1996 L. Peter Deutsch
Copyright 2014-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Dimitar Dimitrov <dimitar@dinux.eu>
Copyright 1997-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Ian Lance Taylor Cygnus Solutions
Copyright (C) 1998-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Mark Mitchell (mmitchell@usa.net) based on code found formerly in parse.
Copyright 2016, 2018 D Language Foundation License
Copyright 2014-2020 Advanced Micro Devices Inc
Copyright 1997-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Cygnus Solutions
Copyright 1990-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Richard Kenner (kenner@vlsi1.ultra.nyu.edu)
Copyright 1995-1996 Jean-loup Gailly Brian Raiter and Gilles Vollant. File written by Gilles Vollant by converting match686.S from Brian Raiter for MASM
Copyright 2014-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Dimitar Dimitrov <dimitar@dinux.eu>
Copyright 2000, 2007 Software AG
Copyright 2011-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Iain Sandoe
Copyright 2004 Henrik Ravn
Copyright (C) 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Aldy Hernandez (aldyh@redhat.com). Rewritten by Paolo Bonzini (bonzini@gnu.org). 
copyright years add 2003
Copyright (C) 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andy Vaught and Janne Blomqvist 
Copyright 2003-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Dorit Naishlos <dorit@il.ibm.com> and Ira Rosen <irar@il.ibm.com>
Copyright (c) 1996 1997 Silicon Graphics 
Copyright 2001, 2005-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Jakub Jelinek
Copyright 2015-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Jack Howarth <howarth.at.gcc@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 1997 by Rick Booth From Inner Loops by Rick Booth Addison-Wesley 
Copyright 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. . Contributed by David Edelsohn (edelsohn@gnu.org)
Copyright (C) 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by J orn Rennecke <joern.rennecke@superh.com> 
Copyright (C) 1996-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written By Steve Chamberlain 
Copyright 2010-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by I-Jui Sung based on ARM926EJ-S Pipeline Description
Copyright 1998-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Kaveh Ghazi (ghazi@caip.rutgers.edu)
Copyright 2013 Synopsys Inc
Copyright (C) 1988-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Mostly by William Schelter. 
Copyright 2000-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Alex Samuel <samuel@codesourcery.com>
Copyright 2001-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Jakub Jelinek <jakub@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 1989-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by A. Lichnewsky lich@inria.inria.fr. Changes by Michael Meissner meissner@osf.org. 
Copyright (C) 2006-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Paul Brook <paul@codesourcery.com> 
Copyright 2001-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Aldy Hernandez (aldyh@redhat.com)
Copyright (C) 1998-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Georg Lay (avr@gjlay.de) 
Copyright 2000-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andy Vaught & Katherine Holcomb
Copyright (C) 2008-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Martin Jambor <mjambor@suse.cz> 
Copyright 2010-2017 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Peter Rosin <peda@lysator.liu.se>
Copyright 2003 Jakub Jelinek <jakub@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2003 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Raymond <raymond@magma.magma-da.com>. 
Copyright (C) 2011-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Tristan Gingold (gingold@adacore.com). 
Copyright 2011-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Diego Novillo <dnovillo@google.com>
Copyright 1999-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Vladimir Makarov (vmakarov@cygnus.com)
Copyright 2007 to include
Copyright (C) 2004-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by P.J. Darcy (darcypj@us.ibm.com). 
 for functions. Fix header format. Add copyright 2001
Copyright 2002 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Matt Austern
Copyright 1996-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Jeff Law (law@cygnus.com)
Copyright 2017-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Sebastian Perta
Copyright (C) 1989 by Matthew Self. You may freely distribute verbatim copies of this software provided that this 
Copyright (C) 2004 2005 2006 Cavium Networks. 
Copyright (C) 2010-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Marvell. 
Copyright (C) 2003 Free Software Foundation. by Roger Sayle <roger@eyesopen.com> derived from mzero3.
Copyright 2002-2004 Dmitriy Anisimkov -- -- -- -- Open source license information is in the zlib.ads file. --
Copyright 2001-2003 Peter Dimov
Copyright 2003-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Feng Wang <wf_cs@yahoo.com>
Copyright 2008-2010, 2012 Free Software Foundation Contributed by Janis Johnson <janis187@us.ibm.com>
Copyright 2001-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Hans-Peter Nilsson <hp@bitrange.com>
Copyright 2000-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Mark Mitchell <mark@codesourcery.com>
Copyright (C) 1994 Stephen L. Moshier (moshier@world.std.com). Authors Stephen L. Moshier ported to D by Don Clugston and David Nadlinger 
Copyright 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Thomas Koenig <tkoenig@gcc.gnu.org>
Copyright Kenji Hara 2014
Copyright 1999-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Nathan Sidwell
Copyright (C) 2012-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Sean D'Epagnier (sean@depagnier.com) Georg-Johann Lay (avr@gjlay.de) 
Copyright (C) 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Paul Brook <paul@nowt.org> and Andy Vaught 
Copyright (C) 2004-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. echo echo This file is part of GCC. 
Copyright 2019-2021 The D Language Foundation License
Copyright (C) 2004-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Douglas B Rupp <rupp@gnat.com> 
Copyright (C) 1989-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by A. Lichnewsky lich@inria.inria.fr Changes by Michael Meissner meissner@osf.org 
Copyright 2005-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Franois-Xavier Coudert <coudert@clipper.ens.fr>
Copyright 2002-2003, 2009-2012 ARM Ltd
Copyright 2014-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Yury Gribov <y.gribov@samsung.com>
Copyright 2011-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andrew Waterman (andrew@sifive.com). Based on MIPS target for GNU compiler
Copyright (C) 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Wasabi Systems. Inc. 
Copyright (c) 2013 Lars Tandle Kyllingstad. License 
Copyright 2000-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. dnl dnl GCC is free software
Copyright 2000-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Paul Brook <paul@nowt.org>
Copyright (C) 2001-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Joseph Myers <jsm28@cam.ac.uk>. 
Copyright 2008-2010, 2012 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Ralf Wildenhues <Ralf.Wildenhues@gmx.de>
Copyright 1995-2017 Jean-Loup Gailly Mark Adler. OS
Copyright (C) 1996-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Michael Meissner (meissner@cygnus.com). 
Copyright 2011-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Torvald Riegel <triegel@redhat.com>
Copyright 1997 Christian Michelsen Research AS Advanced Computing
Copyright 1999, 2008 The Open Group The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc
Copyright (c) 2007 by Till Harbaum <till@harbaum.org> 
Copyright (C) 1995-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Mostly written by Jason Merrill (jason@cygnus.com). 
Copyright 1998-2009 The Free Software Foundation Inc
Copyright Danny Milosavljevic 2014
Copyright (C) 2006-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Wolfgang Gellerich using code and information found in files 
Copyright (C) 2008-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Doug Kwan (dougkwan@google.com) Rewritten by CodeSourcery Inc. 
Copyright (C) 2012-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Dimitar Dimitrov 
Copyright 2001-2002, 2007 Free Software Foundation. by Hans-Peter Nilsson <hp@axis.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Free Software Foundation Inc. Original test by Hans-Peter Nilsson <hp@bitrange.com> 
Copyright 2012-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Jonah Graham (jgraham@altera.com). Contributed by Mentor Graphics Inc
Copyright 1996-2014 Anthony Green Red Hat Inc and others
(c) 2016 John David Anglin based on src pa linux.S 
Copyright 1997 Borland Corp
Copyright (C) 2000-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Alex Samuel <samuel@codesourcery.com> 
Copyright (C) 2001-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Sony Computer Entertainment Inc. 
Copyright (C) 2013-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. DMULT DDIV replacement support by Juergen Urban JuergenUrban@gmx.de. 
Copyright 2000 Addison Wesley Inc
Copyright (C) 1998-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Mark Michell (mark@codesourcery.com). 
Copyright (c) 2002 2003 2004 2010 Free Software Foundation Inc. based on ppc
Copyright 2005-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. dnl dnl
Copyright 2007-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributor Claudiu Zissulescu <claudiu.zissulescu@synopsys.com>
Copyright 2002 Free Software Foundation Inc. Ales Nyakhaychyk <nyakhaychyk@i18n.linux.by>
Copyright 2001-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Alexandre Oliva <aoliva@redhat.com>
Copyright 1998-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Denis Chertykov (chertykov@gmail.com)
Copyright 1999 Citrus Project
Copyright Guillaume Chatelet 2016
Copyright (C) 2000 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Loren J. Rittle 
Copyright (C) 2018-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Alexander Monakov. 
Copyright (C) 1993-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Fred Fish (fnf@cygnus.com). 
Copyright 1992-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written By David Vinayak Henkel-Wallace June
Copyright 1991-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Pieter
Copyright 2009-2019 the contributors listed in CREDITS.TXT
Copyright 2014-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Iain Buclaw (ibuclaw@gdcproject.org)
Copyright (c) 2008 Warren Young <warren@etr-usa.com> 
Copyright textcopyright 2014-2016
Copyright 2002 Ranjit Mathew
Copyright 1987-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Michael Tiemann (tiemann@cygnus.com)
Copyright 2008-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Nathan Froyd
Copyright (C) 1998 - 2010 Daniel Stenberg &lt daniel@haxx.se&gt et al. 
Copyright 2011-2012 Tilera Corp
Copyright 2008-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Thomas Koenig <tkoenig@gcc.gnu.org> based on spread
Copyright 2003-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Ian Lance Taylor <ian@wasabisystems.com>
Copyright 2009-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Thomas Koenig
Copyright 2001-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written By Nick Clifton
Copyright (C) 2012-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Tobias Grosser <tobias@grosser.es>. 
Copyright 2007 Free Software Foundation Contributed by Ollie Wild <aaw@google.com> Origin Volker Reichelt <reichelt@gcc.gnu.org>
Copyright (C) 2009 Canonical Ltd. Author Kees Cook <kees@ubuntu.com> License GPLv3 
Copyright (C) 2010-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Based on C6X soft-fp header. 
Copyright (c) 2008 Red Hat Inc. derived from unix64.S 
Copyright 2007 Free Software Foundation Contributed by Andreas Krebbel <Andreas.Krebbel@de.ibm.com> 
Copyright (C) 1994 Stephen L. Moshier (moshier@world.std.com). License 
Copyright 2003-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Red Hat
Copyright (C) 1992-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Steve Naroff. 
Copyright (C) 2001-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Daniel Berlin <dan@dberlin.org> and Steven Bosscher <stevenb@suse.de> 
Copyright 1994 HEWLETT-PACKARD Co
Copyright 2015-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Alexander Monakov <amonakov@ispras.ru>
Copyright 1998 Andreas R. Kleinert
Copyright 2000-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Jes Sorensen <Jes.Sorensen@cern.ch>
Copyright (C) 2002 Free Software Foundation. by Hans-Peter Nilsson <hp@bitrange.com> derived from mzero2.
Copyright (C) 1987-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Michael Tiemann (tiemann@cygnus.com) and modified by Brendan Kehoe (brendan@cygnus.com). 
Copyright (C) 2005 Free Software Foundation Inc. PR 
Copyright 2009-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Peter Bergner (bergner@vnet.ibm.com)
Copyright 2001 Free Software Foundation Inc. msgid
Copyright 2002 Free Software Foundation Inc. Source Neil Booth
Copyright 1990-2019 Free Software Foundation
Copyright 2000-2005 Free Software Foundation Contributed by Kriang Lerdsuwanakij <lerdsuwa@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright 2003-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Dorit Naishlos <dorit@il.ibm.com>
Copyright (C) 2004-2011 Christopher E. Miller 
Copyright 2008 Steven Schveighoffer. Other code
Copyright 2013 Tensilica Inc
Copyright (C) 1998-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ovidiu Predescu. 
Copyright 2006 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Carlos O'Donell on
Copyright 1984, 1991 Stephen L. Moshier Adapted for glibc November
Copyright (C) 2001-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Aldy Hernandez <aldyh@redhat.com> and Diego Novillo <dnovillo@google.com> 
COPYRIGHT SIGN (16 000AA 16
Copyright 2016-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Daniel Santos <daniel.santos@pobox.com>
Copyright 2005-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Francois-Xavier Coudert <coudert@clipper.ens.fr>
Copyright 2015 Michael Knyszek <mknyszek@berkeley.edu>
(C) 2013 Free Software Foundation Contributed by Tobias Burnus 
Copyright 2009-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Anthony Green <green@moxielogic.com>
Copyright Dominic Sayers Jacob Carlborg 2008
Copyright 2001-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Daniel Berlin <dan@dberlin.org>
Copyright 2001-2003 Peter Dimov and Multi Media Ltd
Copyright 1995-1999 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ulrich Drepper <drepper@gnu.ai.mit.edu>
copyright year to 2011
Copyright 1998 Bob Dellaca
Copyright (C) 2014-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Based on msp430-divmod.
Copyright 1995-2017 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler
Copyright (c) 2012 Alexandre K. I. de Mendonca <alexandre.keunecke@gmail.com> 
Copyright (C) 1992-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Ken Raeburn (raeburn@cygnus.com) while at Watchmaker Computing. Rewritten by Jason Merrill (jason@cygnus.com). 
Copyright (C) 2020-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Peter Bergner <bergner@linux.ibm.com> and Michael Meissner <meissner@linux.ibm.com> 
Copyright (c) 2012 2013 Anthony Green Target configuration macros for Moxie 
Copyright (c) 2008 Red Hat Inc - 
Copyright 2003-2004 by Matthew Wilson and Synesis Software Written by Matthew Wilson 
Copyright (C) 2001-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Richard Henderson (rth@redhat.com) 
COPYRIGHT SIGN Ll -- (16 000AA 16
Copyright 2001 Stephen L. Moshier (moshier@na-net.ornl.gov)
Copyright 2013 The Written Word Inc
Copyright (C) 2020-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Samuel Thibault <samuel.thibault@gnu.org> 
Copyright 1994 X Consortium
Copyright (C) 2018-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Joel Sherrill (joel.sherrill@OARcorp.com). 
Copyright (c) 1996-2003 Red Hat Inc. Target configuration macros for CRIS. 
Copyright (C) 2011-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Based on code contributed by CodeSourcery for ARM EABI Linux. 
Copyright &copy 1998 by Information Technology Industry Council. 
Copyright 2017-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andrew MacLeod <amacleod@redhat.com> and Aldy Hernandez <aldyh@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 1996-2003 Red Hat Inc. Target configuration macros for SuperH. 
Copyright (C) 2006-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ralf Corspius (ralf.corsepius@rtems.org). 
Copyright (c) 1996-2003 Red Hat Inc. Target configuration macros for hppa. 
Copyright 2018-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Steven G. Kargl <kargl@gcc.gnu.org>
Copyright (C) 2002-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Steve Ellcey <sje@cup.hp.com> 
Copyright 2004, 2008, 2011-2014 Anthony Green
Copyright (C) 2000-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Canqun Yang <canqun@nudt.edu.cn> 
Copyright 2009-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Michael Meissner (meissner@linux.vnet.ibm.com)
Copyright (C) 2011-2021 Free Software Foundation Inc. print print cc This file is part of GCC. 


gcc version 8.3.0
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>


The text of the GNU General Public License, Version 2 (June 1991), a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, or as applicable, applies to the above-listed file(s).

The text of the GNU Lesser General Public License, Version 2.1, a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, or as applicable, applies to the above-listed file(s).

The text of the GNU GCC RUNTIME LIBRARY EXCEPTION, Version 3.1 (March 2009), a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, or as applicable, applies to the above-listed file(s).

The text of the GNU General Public License, Version 3 (June 2007), a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, or as applicable, applies to the above-listed file(s).

The text of the GNU Lesser General Public License, Version 3 (29 June 2007), a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, or as applicable, applies to the above-listed file(s).

>>>> gcc/go
Copyright (c) 2009 The Go Authors. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

   * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
   * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer
in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
distribution.
   * Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

>>>> boost
DRuntime: Runtime Library for the D Programming Language
========================================================

Boost Software License - Version 1.0 - August 17th, 2003

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or organization
obtaining a copy of the software and accompanying documentation covered by
this license (the "Software") to use, reproduce, display, distribute,
execute, and transmit the Software, and to prepare derivative works of the
Software, and to permit third-parties to whom the Software is furnished to
do so, all subject to the following:

The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement, including
the above license grant, this restriction and the following disclaimer,
must be included in all copies of the Software, in whole or in part, and
all derivative works of the Software, unless such copies or derivative
works are solely in the form of machine-executable object code generated by
a source language processor.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT
SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

>>>>
Boost Software License - Version 1.0 - August 17th, 2003

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or organization
obtaining a copy of the software and accompanying documentation covered by
this license (the "Software") to use, reproduce, display, distribute,
execute, and transmit the Software, and to prepare derivative works of the
Software, and to permit third-parties to whom the Software is furnished to
do so, all subject to the following:

The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement, including
the above license grant, this restriction and the following disclaimer,
must be included in all copies of the Software, in whole or in part, and
all derivative works of the Software, unless such copies or derivative
works are solely in the form of machine-executable object code generated by
a source language processor.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT
SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

>>>> functions:
   This function is in the public domain.  */

>>>> doc
Copyright (C) 2005-2019 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
This is part of the GNU Fortran manual.   
For copying conditions, see the file gfortran.texi.

Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.3 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with the
Invariant Sections being ``Funding Free Software'', the Front-Cover
Texts being (a) (see below), and with the Back-Cover Texts being (b)
(see below).  A copy of the license is included in the gfdl(7) man page.

>>>
==============================================================================
compiler_rt License
==============================================================================

The compiler_rt library is dual licensed under both the University of Illinois
"BSD-Like" license and the MIT license.  As a user of this code you may choose
to use it under either license.  As a contributor, you agree to allow your code
to be used under both.

Full text of the relevant licenses is included below.

==============================================================================

University of Illinois/NCSA
Open Source License

Copyright (c) 2009-2012 by the contributors listed in CREDITS.TXT

All rights reserved.

Developed by:

    LLVM Team

    University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign

    http://llvm.org

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal with
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do
so, subject to the following conditions:

    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
      this list of conditions and the following disclaimers.

    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
      this list of conditions and the following disclaimers in the
      documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

    * Neither the names of the LLVM Team, University of Illinois at
      Urbana-Champaign, nor the names of its contributors may be used to
      endorse or promote products derived from this Software without specific
      prior written permission.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
CONTRIBUTORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS WITH THE
SOFTWARE.

==============================================================================

Copyright (c) 2009-2012 by the contributors listed in CREDITS.TXT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.

==============================================================================
Copyrights and Licenses for Third Party Software Distributed with LLVM:
==============================================================================
The LLVM software contains code written by third parties.  Such software will
have its own individual LICENSE.TXT file in the directory in which it appears.
This file will describe the copyrights, license, and restrictions which apply
to that code.

The disclaimer of warranty in the University of Illinois Open Source License
applies to all code in the LLVM Distribution, and nothing in any of the
other licenses gives permission to use the names of the LLVM Team or the
University of Illinois to endorse or promote products derived from this
Software.

The following pieces of software have additional or alternate copyrights,
licenses, and/or restrictions:

Program             Directory
-------             ---------
mach_override       lib/interception/mach_override


>>>>
//
// Part of the LLVM Project, under the Apache License v2.0 with LLVM Exceptions.
// See https://llvm.org/LICENSE.txt for license information.
// SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0 WITH LLVM-exception
//

---- LLVM Exceptions to the Apache 2.0 License ----
==============================================================================
The LLVM Project is under the Apache License v2.0 with LLVM Exceptions:
==============================================================================

 The text of the Apache License, Version 2.0, a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, or as applicable, applies to the above-listed file(s).

As an exception, if, as a result of your compiling your source code, portions
of this Software are embedded into an Object form of such source code, you
may redistribute such embedded portions in such Object form without complying
with the conditions of Sections 4(a), 4(b) and 4(d) of the License.

In addition, if you combine or link compiled forms of this Software with
software that is licensed under the GPLv2 ("Combined Software") and if a
court of competent jurisdiction determines that the patent provision (Section
3), the indemnity provision (Section 9) or other Section of the License
conflicts with the conditions of the GPLv2, you may retroactively and
prospectively choose to deem waived or otherwise exclude such Section(s) of
the License, but only in their entirety and only with respect to the Combined
Software.

==============================================================================
Software from third parties included in the LLVM Project:
==============================================================================
The LLVM Project contains third party software which is under different license
terms. All such code will be identified clearly using at least one of two
mechanisms:
1) It will be in a separate directory tree with its own `LICENSE.txt` or
   `LICENSE` file at the top containing the specific license and restrictions
   which apply to that software, or
2) It will contain specific license and restriction terms at the top of every
   file.

==============================================================================
Legacy LLVM License (https://llvm.org/docs/DeveloperPolicy.html#legacy):
==============================================================================

The software contained in this directory tree is dual licensed under both the
University of Illinois "BSD-Like" license and the MIT license.  As a user of
this code you may choose to use it under either license.  As a contributor,
you agree to allow your code to be used under both.

Full text of the relevant licenses is included below.

==============================================================================
University of Illinois/NCSA
Open Source License

Copyright (c) 2017-2019 by the contributors listed in CREDITS.TXT

All rights reserved.

Developed by:
    Threading Runtimes Team
    Intel Corporation
    http://www.intel.com

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of
this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal with
the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to
use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do
so, subject to the following conditions:

    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice,
      this list of conditions and the following disclaimers.

    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
      this list of conditions and the following disclaimers in the
      documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

    * Neither the names of Intel Corporation Threading Runtimes Team nor the
      names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products
      derived from this Software without specific prior written permission.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
CONTRIBUTORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS WITH THE
SOFTWARE.

==============================================================================
Copyright (c) 2017-2019 by the contributors listed in CREDITS.TXT

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.



>>>>> 

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

This program, "bzip2", the associated library "libbzip2", and all
documentation, are copyright (C) 1996-2010 Julian R Seward.  All
rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must 
   not claim that you wrote the original software.  If you use this 
   software in a product, an acknowledgment in the product 
   documentation would be appreciated but is not required.

3. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must
   not be misrepresented as being the original software.

4. The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote 
   products derived from this software without specific prior written 
   permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY
DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE
GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

Julian Seward, jseward@bzip.org
bzip2/libbzip2 version 1.0.6 of 6 September 2010

--------------------------------------------------------------------------

>>> unicode
ï»¿UNICODE, INC. LICENSE AGREEMENT - DATA FILES AND SOFTWARE

    Unicode Data Files include all data files under the directories
http://www.unicode.org/Public/, http://www.unicode.org/reports/, and
http://www.unicode.org/cldr/data/. Unicode Data Files do not include PDF
online code charts under the directory http://www.unicode.org/Public/.
Software includes any source code published in the Unicode Standard or under
the directories http://www.unicode.org/Public/,
http://www.unicode.org/reports/, and http://www.unicode.org/cldr/data/.

    NOTICE TO USER: Carefully read the following legal agreement. BY
DOWNLOADING, INSTALLING, COPYING OR OTHERWISE USING UNICODE INC.'S DATA FILES
("DATA FILES"), AND/OR SOFTWARE ("SOFTWARE"), YOU UNEQUIVOCALLY ACCEPT, AND
AGREE TO BE BOUND BY, ALL OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF
YOU DO NOT AGREE, DO NOT DOWNLOAD, INSTALL, COPY, DISTRIBUTE OR USE THE DATA
FILES OR SOFTWARE.

    COPYRIGHT AND PERMISSION NOTICE

    Copyright Â© 1991-2013 Unicode, Inc. All rights reserved. Distributed under
the Terms of Use in http://www.unicode.org/copyright.html.

    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
copy of the Unicode data files and any associated documentation (the "Data
Files") or Unicode software and any associated documentation (the "Software")
to deal in the Data Files or Software without restriction, including without
limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, and/or
sell copies of the Data Files or Software, and to permit persons to whom the
Data Files or Software are furnished to do so, provided that (a) the above
copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear with all copies of the
Data Files or Software, (b) both the above copyright notice(s) and this
permission notice appear in associated documentation, and (c) there is clear
notice in each modified Data File or in the Software as well as in the
documentation associated with the Data File(s) or Software that the data or
software has been modified.

    THE DATA FILES AND SOFTWARE ARE PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD
PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR HOLDERS INCLUDED IN
THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR
PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS
ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THE
DATA FILES OR SOFTWARE.

    Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder shall
not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other
dealings in these Data Files or Software without prior written authorization
of the copyright holder.



Copyright (C) 2007-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Kenneth Zadeck (zadeck@naturalbridge.com). 
Copyright 2013 Miodrag Vallat. <miod@openbsd.org>
Copyright 2001-2004 Free Software Foundation Inc. Simos Xenitellis <simos@hellug.gr>
Copyright 1992-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written By David Vinayak Henkel-Wallace June
Copyright 1998-1999 Cygnus Solutions
Copyright (C) 2012-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Sean D'Epagnier (sean@depagnier.com) Georg-Johann Lay (avr@gjlay.de) 
Copyright (C) 1996-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Richard Henderson (rth@tamu.edu). 
Copyright (C) 2002-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ben Elliston <bje@redhat.com> and Andrew MacLeod <amacleod@redhat.com> 
Copyright 2000-2007 Lucent Technologies Inc. and others
Copyright 1996-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Michael Meissner (meissner@cygnus.com)
Copyright 2007-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Aldy Hernandez <aldyh@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2002-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Paul Brook <paul@nowt.org> and Andy Vaught <andy@xena.eas.asu.edu> 
Copyright 2011-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Diego Novillo <dnovillo@google.com>
Copyright 1998-2010 Gilles Vollant
Copyright 2010-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andrew Jenner <andrew@codesourcery.com> Contributed by Bernd Schmidt <bernds@codesourcery.com>
Copyright (C) 2014-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Iain Buclaw (ibuclaw@gdcproject.org) 
Copyright (C) 2006-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Sebastian Pop <pop@cri.ensmp.fr> Zdenek Dvorak <dvorakz@suse.cz> and Razya Ladelsky <razya@il.ibm.com>. 
Copyright 2008-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Thomas Koenig <tkoenig@gcc.gnu.org> based on unpack
Copyright 1995-2017 Jean-loup Gailly detect
Copyright 2008-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Michael Eager eager@eagercon.com
Copyright 1995-2010 Jean-loup Gailly Brian Raiter and Gilles Vollant
Copyright 1996-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Bob Manson <manson@cygnus.com>. Completely remangled by Nathan Sidwell <nathan@codesourcery.com>
Copyright (C) 1998-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Mark Mitchell (mmitchell@usa.net) based on code found formerly in parse.
Copyright 2013-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Francois-Xavier Coudert <fxcoudert@gcc.gnu.org>
Copyright (C) 2014 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by David Malcolm <dmalcolm@redhat.com>. 
Copyright (C) 2000-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Adapted from original RTL SSA-CCP by Daniel Berlin <dberlin@dberlin.org> Adapted to GIMPLE trees by Diego Novillo <dnovillo@redhat.com> 
Copyright 2010-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Bernd Schmidt <bernds@codesourcery.com> Contributed by CodeSourcery
Copyright (C) 2002 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andreas Bauer <baueran@in.tum.de> 
Copyright (C) 2015-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Marcin Kocielnicki <koriakin@0x04.net>. 
Copyright 2009-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Sebastian Pop <sebastian.pop@amd.com> and Tobias Grosser <grosser@fim.uni-passau.de>
Copyright (c) 1996-1998 John D. Polstra. All rights reserved. 
Copyright 2011-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by AdaCore
Copyright (C) 2006-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Paul Brook <paul@codesourcery.com> 
Copyright (c) 2012 Alan Hourihane 
Copyright (C) 2015-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Dmitry Vyukov <dvyukov@google.com> and Wish Wu <wishwu007@gmail.com> 
Copyright (C) 1999 2000 2002 National Research Council of Canada. 
Copyright (C) 2002 Free Software Foundation Contributed by Kriang Lerdsuwanakij <lerdsuwa@users.sourceforge.net> Split into pieces for binary compatibility testing October 
Copyright 2000-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Steven Bosscher
Copyright (C) 2013-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Ian Lance Taylor Google and David Edelsohn IBM. 
Copyright (C) 1998-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Mark Michell (mark@codesourcery.com). 
Copyright 1996-2003 Free Software Foundation Inc. Taken from GNU libtool
Copyright 2002-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Zack Weinberg <zack@codesourcery.com>
Copyright (C) 1992-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Gary Funck (gary@intrepid.com). Derived from DWARF 
Copyright 2012-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Jonah Graham (jgraham@altera.com). Contributed by Mentor Graphics Inc
Copyright (C) 2001-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by David E. O'Brien <obrien@FreeBSD.org>. 
Copyright 1988, 2000, 2002 Free Software Foundation written by Doug Lea (dl@rocky.oswego.edu)
Copyright 2010-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Bernd Schmidt <bernds@codesourcery.com>
Copyright 2000-2007 Vita Nuova Holdings Ltd
Copyright 1998-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Denis Chertykov (chertykov@gmail.com)
Copyright (c) 2012 Thorsten Glaser 
copyrights-brig 2017-2018
Copyright (C) 2016-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Than McIntosh Google. 
Copyright (C) 1998-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ovidiu Predescu. 
Copyright (c) 1996-2003 Red Hat Inc. Target configuration macros for SuperH - SHmedia. 
Copyright 2000-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Zack Weinberg Mar
Copyright 2001-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ziemowit Laski <zlaski@apple.com>
Copyright 1993-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Steve Chamberlain (sac@cygnus.com). Improved by Jim Wilson (wilson@cygnus.com)
Copyright (C) 2010 Doug Evans. 
Copyright 2010-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Nicola Pero <nicola.pero@meta-innovation.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Yoshinori Sato <ysato@users.sourceforge.jp> 
Copyright 2005-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Geoffrey Keating
Copyright (C) 1995-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Richard Earnshaw (rearnsha@armltd.co.uk). 
Copyright 2012-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andreas Krebbel (Andreas.Krebbel@de.ibm.com)
Copyright 2000-2001 John Hornkvist
Copyright 2008-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Anthony Green
Copyright 1984, 1991 Stephen L. Moshier Adapted for glibc October
Copyright (c) 1998 2012 Andreas Schwab 
Copyright 2001-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Bob Wilson (bwilson@tensilica.com) at Tensilica
Copyright 2007-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ollie Wild <aaw@google.com>
Copyright (C) 1992-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Richard Kenner (kenner@vlsi1.ultra.nyu.edu). Hacked by Michael Tiemann (tiemann@cygnus.com). 
Copyright (C) 2009-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Jack Howarth <howarth@bromo.med.uc.edu>. 
Copyright 1991 Per Bothner
Copyright (C) 1998-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ulrich Drepper <drepper@cygnus.com> 
Copyright 2005-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Analog Devices
Copyright (c) 2013 Synposys Inc. 
Copyright 1983 Regents of the University of California. msgstr Basierend auf BSD gprof
Copyright 2000 Addison Wesley Longman Inc
Copyright 2002, 2007 Bo Thorsen <bo@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 1989-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by A. Lichnewsky lich@inria.inria.fr Changes by Michael Meissner meissner@osf.org 
Copyright (C) 2002-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andy Vaught and Janne Blomqvist 
Copyright (C) 1987-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Michael Tiemann (tiemann@cygnus.com) and modified by Brendan Kehoe (brendan@cygnus.com). 
Copyright (C) 2007-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Danny Smith <dannysmith@users.sourceforge.net> 
Copyright 2009-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Jack Howarth <howarth.at.gcc@gmail.com>
Copyright (c) 1996-2003 Red Hat Inc. Target configuration macros for IA-
Copyright (C) 2001-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Adapted from 
Copyright 2013-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Martin Jambor <mjambor@suse.cz> and Martin Liska <mliska@suse.cz>
Copyright 2011 Kyle Moffett
Copyright (C) 1995-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ronald F. Guilmette <rfg@monkeys.com>. 
Copyright (C) 2011-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. print print cc This file is part of GCC. 
Copyright 1999-2006 Yasushi Saito--
Copyright 2000 Free Software Foundation Contributed by Alexandre Oliva <aoliva@cygnus.com>
Copyright 2002-2003 Free Software Foundation Origin PR
Copyright (c) 2013 Imagination Technologies Ltd. Target configuration macros for Meta 
Copyright (C) 1999-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Mumit Khan <khan@xraylith.wisc.edu>. 
Copyright 2003-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Nicolas Pitre (nico@cam.org)
Copyright 2014-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by John Marino <gnugcc@marino.st>
Copyright (C) 2007-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Pascal Obry <obry@adacore.com> 
Copyright 2001-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Diego Novillo <dnovillo@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2002-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by David O'Brien <obrien@FreeBSD.org> 
Copyright 2010-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ilya Enkovich (ilya.enkovich@intel.com)
Copyright 1990-2000 Info-ZIP
Copyright 1995-2017 Jean-loup Gailly
Copyright 2002 Free Software Foundation Origin C
Copyright (c) 1996-2003 Red Hat Inc. Target configuration macros for 
Copyright (C) 2002-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Tobias Schl uter 
Copyright 2012-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andes Technology Corp
Copyright 1998-1999 Greg Colvin and Beman Dawes
Copyright 2002-2004 Dmitriy Anisimkov -- -- -- --
Copyright (C) 2002-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Aldy Hernandez <aldy@quesejoda.com>. Shamelessly stolen from the Java front end. 
Copyright (C) 1998-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Joern Rennecke 
Copyright (C) 1993-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Stephen L. Moshier (moshier@world.std.com). Re-written by Richard Henderson <rth@redhat.com> 
Copyright 2001 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Jason Merrill
Copyright (C) 1987-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Douglas B. Rupp (rupp@gnat.com). Updated by Bernard W. Giroud (bgiroud@users.sourceforge.net). 
Copyright 2001-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Sony Computer Entertainment Inc
Copyright 1999-2018 gfortran
Copyright 2002-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Paul Brook <paul@nowt.org> and Steven Bosscher <s.bosscher@student.tudelft.nl>
Copyright (C) 2001-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Aldy Hernandez <aldyh@redhat.com> and Diego Novillo <dnovillo@google.com> 
Copyright (C) 1997-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Scott Christley <scottc@net-community.com> 
Copyright (C) 2007-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Saurabh Verma (saurabh.verma@celunite.com) on behalf os Synopsys Inc. 
Copyright (C) 1991-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Based on svr4.
Copyright 1999-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Gabriel Dos Reis <gdr@codesourcery.com>
Copyright (C) 2006-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Carlos O'Donell <carlos@codesourcery.com> 
Copyright 2004 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed and written by Nathanael Nerode. 
Copyright (C) 1994-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Originally contributed by Dave Love (d.love@dl.ac.uk). 
Copyright 2005 Free Software Foundation contributed by Alexandre Oliva <aoliva@redhat.com> inspired in the failure reported in Red Hat bugzilla 
Copyright (C) 2003 Free Software Foundation. PR target 
Copyright 1996-2012, 2014 Red Hat Inc
Copyright 2002 Free Software Foundation Inc Contributed by Nathan Sidwell <nathan@codesourcery.com>
Copyright (C) 2008-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Originally written by CodeSourcery for VFP. 
Copyright (C) 2010-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Christian Borntraeger (Christian.Borntraeger@de.ibm.com) Andreas Krebbel (Andreas.Krebbel@de.ibm.com) 
Copyright 1998-2010 Gilles Vollant -
Copyright 1990-2016 Free Software Foundation
Copyright 2001-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Hans-Peter Nilsson <hp@bitrange.com>
Copyright (C) 2010-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Thomas Knig. 
Copyright (C) 1992-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by the Center for Software Science at the University of Utah. 
Copyright (C) 2011-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andi Kleen. 
Copyright 2005 Free Software Foundation by Alexandre Oliva <aoliva@redhat.com> based on https bugzilla.redhat.com beta show
Copyright (C) 2008-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Martin Jambor <mjambor@suse.cz> 
Copyright 1998-2000, 2002-2004, 2007, 2009-2010 Free Software Foundation Originally by Alexandre Oliva <oliva@dcc.unicamp.br>
Copyright 1996-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Jeff Law (law@cygnus.com)
Copyright (C) 1997-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Mike Stump <mrs@wrs.com>. 
Copyright (C) 2007-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andy Vaught Write float code factoring to this file by Jerry DeLisle 
Copyright 2009-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Thomas Koenig
Copyright (C) 2004-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by P.J. Darcy (darcypj@us.ibm.com). 
Copyright (C) 2005-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ilie Garbacea <ilie@mips.com> Chao-ying Fu <fu@mips.com>. 
Copyright 2008-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Paul Yuan (yingbo.com@gmail.com) and Vinodha Ramasamy (vinodha@google.com)
Copyright (C) 2011-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Based on code contributed by CodeSourcery for ARM EABI Linux. 
Copyright 2011-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andrew Waterman (andrew@sifive.com)
Copyright 1989-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by A. Lichnewsky (lich@inria.inria.fr). Changed by Michael Meissner (meissner@osf.org)
Copyright 1992-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Michael Tiemann (tiemann@cygnus.com) Enhanced by and currently maintained by Jim Wilson (wilson@cygnus.com)
Copyright 1993-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Philip Blundell <philb@gnu.org>
Copyright (C) 1996 MPEG Software Simulation Group. All Rights Reserved. 
Copyright 2011 Free Software Foundation Inc. License GPLv3
Copyright 2013 IBM
Copyright 2013-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andrew Sutton (andrew.n.sutton@gmail.com)
Copyright (C) 2002-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Jason Merrill <jason@redhat.com> 
Copyright (C) 2000-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Michael Matz (matz@ifh.de). 
Copyright 2005-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. dnl dnl
Copyright (C) 2008-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Based on code contributed by CodeSourcery for ARM EABI Linux. Modifications for PA Linux by Helge Deller <deller@gmx.de> 
Copyright (c) 1996-2003 Red Hat Inc. Target configuration macros for Alpha. 
Copyright 1997-1999 Vita Nuova Ltd
Copyright 2012-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Lawrence Crowl <crowl@google.com>
Copyright 2001-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Aldy Hernandez (aldyh@redhat.com)
Copyright 1995 Free Software Foundation Inc... Core was
Copyright 2003-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Douglas B Rupp (rupp@gnat.com)
Copyright 1997-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Red Hat Inc
Copyright 2002 Free Software Foundation Inc. GDB is free software 
Copyright (C) 2001-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Joseph Myers <jsm28@cam.ac.uk>. 
Copyright (C) 2010-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Split out from tree-ssa-ccp.
Copyright 1999-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Vladimir Makarov (vmakarov@cygnus.com)
Copyright 1996 treaty adopted on
Copyright 2003 years to include
Copyright (C) 1993-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Joern Rennecke <joern.rennecke@st.com>. 
Copyright 2005-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Aldy Hernandez <aldy@quesejoda.com>
Copyright (C) 2006 Free Software Foundation Inc. Caslav Ilic <caslav.ilic@gmx.net> 
Copyright (C) 2001 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Jeffrey D. Oldham 
Copyright 2003-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Sebastian Pop <pop@cri.ensmp.fr>
Copyright 1995-2017 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler .LP
Copyright 2002-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Thomas Koenig <tkoenig@gcc.gnu.org>
Copyright (C) 1998 Free Software Foundation by Alexandre Oliva <oliva@dcc.unicamp.br> 
Copyright (C) 1993-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Fred Fish (fnf@cygnus.com). 
Copyright 1995-2017 Mark Adler
Copyright (C) 2013-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by David Edelsohn IBM. 
Copyright 2008-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Doug Kwan <dougkwan@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2014-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Martin Liska 
Copyright (C) 2004-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Bud Davis and Janne Blomqvist. 
Copyright (C) 2001-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by David Mosberger <davidm@hpl.hp.com>. 
Copyright 2008-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Rafael Avila de Espindola (espindola@google.com)
Copyright 2013 The Written Word Inc. -
Copyright 2017-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Google
Copyright (C) 2009-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Sebastian Pop <sebastian.pop@amd.com> and Konrad Trifunovic <konrad.trifunovic@inria.fr>. 
Copyright (C) 2002 Free Software Foundation Contributed by Matt Austern <austern@apple.com> 
Copyright (C) 1998-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Daniel Berlin (dan@cgsoftware.com). Re-implemented in C
Copyright 2010-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Theobroma Systems Design und Consulting GmbH
Copyright 2001-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written By Nick Clifton
Copyright 2004-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Apple Inc
Copyright (C) 2004-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Douglas B Rupp <rupp@gnat.com> 
Copyright 2003-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by CodeSourcery LLC
Copyright (c) 1998 2001 2007 2008 2011 2014 Red Hat 
Copyright (C) 2001-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Bob Wilson (bob.wilson@acm.org) at Tensilica. 
Copyright 2008-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Ian Lance Taylor <iant@google.com>
Copyright 1998-1999 ISO
Copyright (C) 1990-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by James E. Wilson of Cygnus Support. Mangled by Bob Manson of Cygnus Support. 
Copyright (C) 2012-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Jonah Graham (jgraham@altera.com) and Will Reece (wreece@altera.com). 
Copyright 1989-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ron Guilmette (rfg@segfault.us.com)
Copyright 1994-1999 Lucent Technologies Inc
Copyright 2009-2010 Mathias Svensson
Copyright 1999-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by James E. Wilson <wilson@cygnus.com> and David Mosberger <davidm@hpl.hp.com>
Copyright (C) 2002-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Neil Booth May 
Copyright (C) 2005-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Richard Henderson <rth@redhat.com> Diego Novillo <dnovillo@redhat.com>. 
copyright (C) 1991-2011 Thomas G. Lane Guido Vollbeding. All Rights Reserved except as specified below. 
Copyright (c) 1996-2004 Red Hat Inc. Target configuration macros for FR-V 
Copyright 1993, 2004 Sun Microsystems Inc
Copyright 2005 Axis Communications AB
Copyright 2008-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Jan Sjodin <jan.sjodin@amd.com> and Sebastian Pop <sebastian.pop@amd.com>
Copyright (C) 2000-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Benjamin Chelf (chelf@codesourcery.com). 
Copyright (c) 2001 David E. O'Brien Portions 
Copyright 2002 Free Software Foundation Contributed by Jason Merrill and Alexandre Oliva 
Copyright (c) 2002 2009 Free Software Foundation Inc. based on darwin.S by John Hornkvist 
Copyright 2007-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by David Edelsohn <edelsohn@gnu.org> and Revital Eres <eres@il.ibm.com>
Copyright (C) 2001 2003 2004 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ben Elliston <bje@redhat.com> 
Copyright (C) 2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Michael Meissner (meissner@linux.ibm.com) 
Copyright (C) 2002-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Lowering of expressions contributed by Sebastian Pop <s.pop@laposte.net> Re-written to support lowering of whole function trees documentation 
Copyright (C) 2007-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Charles-Antoine Gauthier (charles.gauthier@nrc.ca). 
Copyright 1998-2000 Jacques Nomssi Nzali
Copyright (C) 1996-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Eddie C. Dost (ecd@skynet.be) 
Copyright 2001-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Benjamin Kosnik <bkoz@redhat.com>
Copyright 1993-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Kresten Krab Thorup
Copyright 2000-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andy Vaught & Katherine Holcomb
Copyright 2004-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Tobias Schlter
Copyright (C) 2003 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Wolfgang Bangerth <bangerth@ticam.utexas.edu> 
Copyright 1996-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by CodeSourcery LLC
Copyright 2009-2018 The Go Authors
Copyright 1994-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Michael K. Gschwind (mike@vlsivie.tuwien.ac.at)
Copyright  2002 OOPSLA. 
Copyright 2014-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Rong Xu <xur@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2001-2005 Quantum-ESPRESSO group This file is distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License. See the file 
Copyright (c) 2013 Imagination Technologies Ltd. 
Copyright (C) 1995 1996 1997 2003 2004 2005 2007 2009 Free Software Foundation Inc. written by Ulrich Drepper <drepper@gnu.ai.mit.edu> June 
Copyright (C) 1992-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ron Guilmette (rfg@netcom.com). Additional changes by David V. Henkel-Wallace (gumby@cygnus.com). 
Copyright 2002-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Wasabi Systems Inc
Copyright (C) 2002-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andy Vaught Namelist transfer functions contributed by Paul Thomas 
Copyright (C) 2009-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Paul Richard Thomas <pault@gcc.gnu.org> and Janus Weil <janus@gcc.gnu.org> 
(c) Willem van Schaik 1999
Copyright 2002 Free Software Foundation Contributed by Jason Merrill <jason@redhat.com> 
Copyright (C) 2002-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Matthew Green (mrg@eterna.com.au). 
Copyright 2014-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Originally contributed by David Malcolm <dmalcolm@redhat.com>
Copyright 2004 Simon Posnjak
Copyright (C) 2009-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Gerald Pfeifer <gerald@pfeifer.com>. 
Copyright (C) 2001-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by matthew green <mrg@eterna.com.au> 
Copyright (C) 1999 Free Software Foundation by Alexandre Oliva <oliva@lsd.ic.unicamp.br> Simplified from libg
Copyright 2003 Chris Anderson <christop@charm.net> Please
Copyright 1995-1999 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Ulrich Drepper <drepper@gnu.org>
Copyright (C) 2001-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Loren J. Rittle <ljrittle@acm.org> 
Copyright (C) 1992-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Ken Raeburn (raeburn@cygnus.com) while at Watchmaker Computing. Rewritten by Jason Merrill (jason@cygnus.com). 
Copyright (C) 2009-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Cary Coutant <ccoutant@google.com>. 
Copyright (C) 2002 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Michael Matz 
Copyright 2005-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Daniel Berlin <dberlin@dberlin.org>
Copyright 2003-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Kejia Zhao <kejia_zh@yahoo.com.cn>
Copyright (c) 1999 Free Software Foundation. Contributed by Zack Weinberg who made it up all by himself. 
Copyright 2002-2008, 2012 Kaz Kojima
Copyright 2000 Hewlett Packard Co
Copyright 1991-2005 Unicode Inc
Copyright 2001 Stephen L. Moshier (moshier@na-net.onrl.gov)
Copyright (C) 2000-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andy Vaught & Niels Kristian Bech Jensen 
Copyright 2009-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Anthony Green <green@moxielogic.com>
Copyright 2011-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Torvald Riegel <triegel@redhat.com>
Copyright 2004-2005, 2007, 2009 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Scott James Remnant
Copyright 1993-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written By Fred Fish Nov
Copyright 1997-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Richard Henderson (rth@cygnus.com) and Jakub Jelinek (jj@ultra.linux.cz)
copyright date with 2004
Copyright 1994-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Embecosm on behalf of Adapteva Inc
Copyright (C) 2006-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Georges-Andre Silber <Georges-Andre.Silber@ensmp.fr> and Sebastian Pop <sebastian.pop@amd.com>. 
Copyright 2002-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Aldy Hernandez (aldy@quesejoda.com)
Copyright (C) 1998-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Georg Lay (avr@gjlay.de) 
Copyright 2007-2008 Even Rouault
Copyright 1990-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by James E. Wilson UC Berkeley Cygnus Support based on some ideas from Dain Samples of UC Berkeley
Copyright (C) 2008-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Wolfgang Gellerich (gellerich@de.ibm.com). 
Copyright 1996-2014 Free Software Foundation Inc. Originally written by Fran cois Pinard <pinard@iro.umontreal.ca>
Copyright (C) 1998-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Catherine Moore <clm@cygnus.com> 
Copyright 2008-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Nathan Froyd
Copyright 2004-2005, 2007-2009 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Gary V. Vaughan
Copyright 2004-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Janne Blomqvist
Copyright (c) 2007 Free Software Foundation Inc. .PP Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this 
Copyright 2005-2007 C H Forsyth (forsyth@terzarima.net) Revisions
Copyright 2003-2004 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Matt Austern <austern@apple.com>
Copyright (C) 2005-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by NEC EL 
Copyright 2015-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Alexander Monakov <amonakov@ispras.ru>
Copyright 1998-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Daniel Berlin (dan@cgsoftware.com)
Copyright 2001-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Jan Hubicka <jh@suse.cz> based on linux
Copyright 2014-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Manuel Lopez-Ibanez
Copyright 2011-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Marvell Inc
Copyright 2016-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Daniel Santos <daniel.santos@pobox.com>
Copyright (C) 1998-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Denis Chertykov <chertykov@gmail.com> 
Copyright 2012-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Mentor Graphics Inc
Copyright 1996-2010 Julian R Seward
Copyright 1991-2017 Florida State University -- --
Copyright 2006-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by CodeSourcery
Copyright 2011-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andrew Waterman (andrew@sifive.com). Based on MIPS target for GNU compiler
Copyright 1998-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Axis Communications. Written by Hans-Peter Nilsson
Copyright (C) 1993-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Kresten Krab Thorup Bitfield support by Ovidiu Predescu 
Copyright 2004-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Nathan Sidwell <nathan@codesourcery.com> Re-implemented in C
Copyright 2002 2007 2009 Free Software Foundation Inc. echo This program is free software you may redistribute it under the echo terms of the GNU General Public License. This program has 
Copyright (C) 1991 by Pipeline Associates Inc. All rights reserved. Permission is granted to do anything you want with this file commercial or otherwise provided this message remains intact. So there 
Copyright (C) 2000-2006 Erik Andersen <andersen@uclibc.org> 
Copyright 2002 Bo Thorsen
Copyright 1998-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. . Contributed by Axis Communications. Written by Hans-Peter Nilsson
Copyright 2012-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by KPIT Cummins Infosystems Ltd
Copyright 2010-2016 Intel Corp
Copyright 2003-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Ian Lance Taylor <ian@wasabisystems.com>
Copyright 2016 John David Anglin
copyright notice to include 2003
Copyright 2012-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Adapted from elf
Copyright (C) 2008-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Doug Kwan (dougkwan@google.com) Rewritten by CodeSourcery Inc. 
Copyright 2000, 2002, 2007-2008 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Theodore.Papadopoulo
Copyright (C) 1996-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written By Steve Chamberlain 
Copyright (C) 2009 the Initial Developer. All Rights Reserved. 
Copyright 2007-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributor Claudiu Zissulescu <claudiu.zissulescu@synopsys.com>
copyright 1987 1988 1989 john 
Copyright 1995-2016 Jean-loup Gailly Mark Adler
Copyright 2001-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Douglas B. Rupp (rupp@gnat.com)
Copyright 2011 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Jakub Jelinek <jakub@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2010 CodeSourcery 
Copyright 1987-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. .PP
Copyright 2000-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Alex Samuel <samuel@codesourcery.com>
Copyright (C) 1999-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Richard Earnshaw (rearnsha@arm.com) Minor hacks by Nick Clifton (nickc@cygnus.com) 
Copyright (C) 1999 Free Software Foundation related to bug report by Leon Bottou <leonb@research.att.com> 
Copyright (C) 2010-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Jan Hubicka <jh@suse.cz> 
Copyright (C) 2006-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Wolfgang Gellerich using code and information found in files 
Copyright 2008-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Edmar Wienskoski (edmar@freescale.com)
Copyright (C) 2016-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by David Tolnay (dtolnay@gmail.com). 
Copyright (C) 2002 FPMD group This file is distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public License. See the file 
Copyright (C) 2008-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Daniel Franke. 
Copyright (C) 1999-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Wind River Systems. Rewritten by CodeSourcery LLC. 
copyrights-go 2010-2018
Copyright 1999-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Charles-Antoine Gauthier (charles.gauthier@iit.nrc.ca)
Copyright 2014-2020 Free Software Foundation Inc. Copying and distribution of this file with or without modification are permitted provided the 
Copyright 2010-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Tobias Burnus <burnus@net-b.de>
Copyright (C) 2002-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Lifang Zeng <zlf605@hotmail.com> 
Copyright 2011-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Nicola Pero <nicola.pero@meta-innovation.com>
Copyright 1997-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andrew MacLeod <amacleod@cygnus.com> Andrew Haley <aph@cygnus.com>
Copyright (C) 1998-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Kaveh Ghazi (ghazi@caip.rutgers.edu) 
Copyright 1999-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Hartmut Penner (hpenner@de.ibm.com) and Ulrich Weigand (uweigand@de.ibm.com)
Copyright 1986-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Per Bothner
Copyright 1991-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Pieter
Copyright 2012-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Chung-Lin Tang <cltang@codesourcery.com>
Copyright (C) 2002 Free Software Foundation Contributed by Roger Sayle <roger@eyesopen.com> 
Copyright (C) 2011-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Iain Sandoe <iains@gcc.gnu.org> 
Copyright (c) 1996-2003 Red Hat Inc. Target configuration macros for MIPS. 
Copyright 2015-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Martin Liska <mliska@suse.cz>
Copyright 2010-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by I-Jui Sung based on ARM926EJ-S Pipeline Description
2003 copyright date. 
Copyright (C) 1994-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Doug Evans dje@cygnus.com. 
Copyright 2012-2013 Xilinx Inc
Copyright 1998-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Axis Communications
Copyright 2010 Faraday Technology Corp
Copyright 2008 Guido U. Draheim <guidod@gmx.de>
Copyright (C) 2012-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Lawrence Crowl. 
Copyright 2005-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Ian Lance Taylor <ian@airs.com>
Copyright 2000-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Zack Weinberg <zackw@stanford.edu>
Copyright (C) 1988-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Mostly by William Schelter. 
copyright 1996 Loren P. Meissner -- May be distributed if this line is included. Linked List operations with Pointer to Pointer 
Copyright 2013-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Marek Polacek <polacek@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 1995-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Philip Blundell <philb@gnu.org> and Catherine Moore <clm@cygnus.com> 
Copyright (C) 1997 - 2002 Makoto Matsumoto and Takuji Nishimura -- -- All rights reserved. -- -- -- 
Copyright 2004, 2006 Bruce Ellis
Copyright 2004-2005 Mark Adler. --
Copyright (c) 2009 Bradley Smith <brad@brad-smith.co.uk> Target configuration macros for AVR32. 
Copyright 1998, 2007 Brian Raiter <breadbox@muppetlabs.com>
Copyright 2017-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Sebastian Perta
Copyright 2009-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Peter Bergner (bergner@vnet.ibm.com)
Copyright (C) 2015-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Dmitry Melnik <dm@ispras.ru> 
Copyright (C) 1993-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Motorola. 
Copyright (C) 2004-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Devang Patel <dpatel@apple.com> 
Copyright 1996-2010 Julian Seward <jseward@bzip.org>
Copyright (C) 2005-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Jeff Law <law@redhat.com> 
Copyright (C) 2013-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. DMULT DDIV replacement support by Juergen Urban JuergenUrban@gmx.de. 
Copyright 2003-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Dorit Naishlos <dorit@il.ibm.com> and Ira Rosen <irar@il.ibm.com>
Copyright 1984-2020 Free Software Foundation Inc
Copyright 2010-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Nicola Pero
Copyright 2003-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Kaveh R. Ghazi <ghazi@caip.rutgers.edu>
Copyright (c) 2011 2014 Anthony Green - 
Copyright 2012-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Jonah Graham (jgraham@altera.com) Will Reece (wreece@altera.com) and Jeff DaSilva (jdasilva@altera.com)
Copyright (C) 2002-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Lars Segerlund <seger@linuxmail.org> Steve Kargl and Janne Blomqvist. 
Copyright (c) 1996-2003 Red Hat Inc. Target configuration macros for SPARC. 
Copyright 1996-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Joel Sherrill (joel@OARcorp.com)
Copyright 2000-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Richard Henderson <rth@cygnus.com>
Copyright 2012 Alexandre K. I. de Mendonca <alexandre.keunecke@gmail.com> Paulo Pizarro <paulo.pizarro@gmail.com>
Copyright 2001 Stephen L. Moshier <moshier@na-net.ornl.gov>
Copyright 2002-2003 Free Software Foundation Contributed by Gabriel Dos Reis <gdr@integrable-solutions.net>
Copyright 1995-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Pieter J. Schoenmakers <tiggr@es.ele.tue.nl>
Copyright 2007 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ollie Wild <aaw@google.com>. define GOT
Copyright (c) 2002 2003 2009 Free Software Foundation Inc. based on darwin
Copyright 2000 Free Software Foundation by Alexandre Oliva <aoliva@redhat.com>
Copyright 2003-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by CodeSourcery
Copyright (C) 1998-2009 Free Software Foundation Inc. -- - -- - GNAT is free software you can redistribute it and or modify it under -- 
Copyright (c) 2013 Imagination Technologies 
Copyright 1995-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Jason Merrill (jason@cygnus.com)
Copyright (C) 2011-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Tom de Vries (tom@codesourcery.com) 
Copyright 2010-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Mingfeng Wu based on ARM926EJ-S Pipeline Description
(C) 1998 2007 Free Software Foundation Originally by Alexandre Oliva <oliva@lsd.ic.unicamp.br> 
Copyright (c) 2004 Renesas Technology. Target configuration macros for M32R. 
Copyright (C) 2000-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Canqun Yang <canqun@nudt.edu.cn> 
Copyright 2011-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Georg-Johann Lay (avr@gjlay.de)
Copyright 1999-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Originally contributed by Michael P. Hayes (m.hayes@elec.canterbury.ac.nz mhayes@redhat.com)
(C) Copyright Jeremy Siek 2000
Copyright 2006-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Franois-Xavier Coudert
Copyright 2004 Ami Tavory and Vladimir Dreizin IBM-HRL
Copyright 2001, 2005-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Jakub Jelinek
Copyright 2001-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Bo Thorsen <bo@suse.de>
Copyright 2003 Free Software Foundation Inc. GDB is free software covered by the GNU General Public License and you are welcome to change it and or distribute copies of it 
Copyright 2000-2003 Software Foundation Inc
(C) 2010 Free Software Foundation Written by Ralf Wildenhues <Ralf.Wildenhues@gmx.de>. 
Copyright 1996 L. Peter Deutsch
Copyright 2000-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andy Vaught
Copyright 1992 & Current
copyright and license notices. ChangeLog-1993-2007
Copyright 2006-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Peter Steinmetz (steinmtz@us.ibm.com)
Copyright (C) 1989-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Michael Tiemann <tiemann@cygnus.com> Rewritten by Mike Stump <mrs@cygnus.com> based upon an 
Copyright 2005-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Sebastian Huber <sebastian.huber@embedded-brains.de>
Copyright (C) 2002-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Matt Thomas <matt@3am-software.com> 
Copyright 2002-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Vladimir Makarov <vmakarov@redhat.com>
Copyright 1995-1996 Jean-loup Gailly Brian Raiter and Gilles Vollant. File written by Gilles Vollant by converting match686.S from Brian Raiter for MASM
Copyright 2000-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written By Timothy Wall
Copyright (C) 2000-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Alex Samuel <samuel@codesourcery.com> 
Copyright 2009-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Kenneth Zadeck <zadeck@naturalbridge.com> Re-implemented by Diego Novillo <dnovillo@google.com>
Copyright 1995-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by David Henkel-Wallace Cygnus Support (gumby@cygnus.com) Rewritten by Adam Nemet LynuxWorks Inc
Copyright (C) 2006-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Nigel Stephens <nigel@mips.com> 
Copyright 2000, 2007 Software AG
Copyright (C) 1989-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by A. Lichnewsky lich@inria.inria.fr. Changes by Michael Meissner meissner@osf.org. 
Copyright 1989, 1993, 1995, 2007-2018 FSF
Copyright 2009-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Anatoly Sokolov (aesok@post.ru)
Copyright 2004 Henrik Ravn
Copyright (C) 2006-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ralf Corspius (ralf.corsepius@rtems.org). 
Copyright 2010-2011 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Francois-Xavier Coudert <fxcoudert@gcc.gnu.org>
Copyright 2002-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Neil Booth
Copyright (C) 2012-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Bill Schmidt IBM <wschmidt@linux.ibm.com> 
Copyright (C) 2002 Free Software Foundation Origin jmr@fulcrummicro.com Contributed by Gabriel Dos Reis <gdr@integrable-solutions.net> 
copyright years add 2003
Copyright (C) 2013-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Michael Matz <matz@suse.de> 
Copyright (c) 1996 1997 Silicon Graphics 
Copyright (C) 2008-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Based on linux-atomic.
Copyright 2005-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Franois-Xavier Coudert <coudert@clipper.ens.fr>
Copyright (C) 2002-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Paul Brook <paul@nowt.org> and Andy Vaught 
Copyright 2009-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ian Lance Taylor <iant@google.com>
Copyright (C) 2002-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Steve Ellcey <sje@cup.hp.com> 
Copyright 2010-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Anthony Green (green@moxielogic.com)
Copyright 1987-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Daniel Berlin <dan@cgsoftware.com>
Copyright 2007-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Sebastian Pop <sebastian.pop@amd.com>
Copyright 2015-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by FTDI <support@ftdi.com>
Copyright (C) 2016-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Claudiu Zissulescu (claziss@synopsys.com) 
Copyright 2003-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Sebastian Pop <s.pop@laposte.net>
Copyright 2001-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Xinliang David Li <davidxl@google.com>
Copyright 2003 Cosmin Truta
Copyright 1999-2014 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Tom Tromey <tromey@cygnus.com>
Copyright 2013 Synopsys Inc
Copyright (C) 2009 2011 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Paolo Bonzini. 
Copyright 1995-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Eric Youngdale. Modified for stabs-in-ELF by H.J. Lu (hjl@lucon.org)
Copyright (C) 2010-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Marvell. 
Copyright 2002-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Major work done by Sebastian Pop <s.pop@laposte.net> Diego Novillo <dnovillo@redhat.com> and Jason Merrill <jason@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2000 Free Software Foundation. by William Cohen <wcohen@redhat.com> 
Copyright (C) 2000 Free Software Foundation Contributed by Nathan Sidwell <nathan@codesourcery.com> 
Copyright 2001-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Daniel Berlin <dan@dberlin.org>
Copyright (C) 2004-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Based on code by Michael P. Hayes (m.hayes@elec.canterbury.ac.nz) 
Copyright 2016-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Martin Sebor <msebor@redhat.com>
Copyright 1998 Geoffrey Keating
COPYRIGHT 1999 SPACKMAN & HENDRICKSON INC. REAL
Copyright 1994-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Eric Youngdale. Modified for stabs-in-ELF by H.J. Lu
Copyright 2004-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Steven G. Kargl <kargls@comcast.net>
Copyright 2011-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Iain Sandoe
Copyright 1992-1999 The Free Software Foundation
Copyright (C) 2007-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by CodeSourcery Inc. www.codesourcery.com 
Copyright 2014-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Mentor Graphics
Copyright (C) 2002-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andy Vaught Namelist output contributed by Paul Thomas 
Copyright (C) 2006-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Dorit Nuzman <dorit@il.ibm.com> 
Copyright 2003 Jakub Jelinek <jakub@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2003 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Raymond <raymond@magma.magma-da.com>. 
Copyright 1996 L. Peter Deutsch and Jean-Loup Gailly
Copyright 1997-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Cygnus Solutions
Copyright (C) 1992-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Chris Smith (csmith@convex.com). Heavily modified by Michael Meissner (meissner@cygnus.com) 
Copyright (C) 1989-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Gavin Koch (gavin@cygnus.com). 
Copyright (C) 2012-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Tobias Grosser <tobias@grosser.es>. 
Copyright 2007 to include
Copyright 2014-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Dehao Chen (dehao@google.com)
Copyright 2000-2001 Free Software Foundation Contributed by Alexandre Oliva <aoliva@redhat.com>
Copyright 2000-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by David E. O'Brien <obrien@FreeBSD.org> and BSDi
Copyright 1992-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Michael Tiemann (tiemann@cygnus.com) of Cygnus Support and Tim Moore (moore@defmacro.cs.utah.edu) of the Center for
Copyright 2010-2018 AdaCore -- -- -- -- GNARL is free software
Copyright (C) 2002-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by John David Anglin (dave.anglin@nrc.ca). 
 for functions. Fix header format. Add copyright 2001
Copyright 2002 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Matt Austern
Copyright (C) 1995-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Tim Moore (moore@defmacro.cs.utah.edu) 
Copyright (C) 1989 by Matthew Self. You may freely distribute verbatim copies of this software provided that this 
Copyright 1983 Regenten der University of California
Copyright (C) 2004 2005 2006 Cavium Networks. 
Copyright (C) 2011-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Uros Bizjak <ubizjak@gmail.com> 
Copyright (C) 2005-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Paolo Bonzini and Steven Bosscher. 
Copyright 2000 Free Software Foundation Contributed by Nathan Sidwell
Copyright 2001-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Alexandre Oliva <aoliva@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2003 Free Software Foundation. by Roger Sayle <roger@eyesopen.com> derived from mzero3.
Copyright 2009 Bradley Smith <brad@brad-smith.co.uk>
Copyright 2002-2004 Dmitriy Anisimkov -- -- -- -- Open source license information is in the zlib.ads file. --
Copyright 1991-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Fred Fish
Copyright 2001-2003 Peter Dimov
Copyright 2012-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Altera and Mentor Graphics Inc
Copyright 2007 Free Software Foundation Contributed by Ollie Wild <aaw@google.com>
Copyright 2008-2010, 2012 Free Software Foundation Contributed by Janis Johnson <janis187@us.ibm.com>
Copyright (C) 2011-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Tristan Gingold (gingold@adacore.com). 
Copyright 1997-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Jason Merrill <jason@cygnus.com>
Copyright 1996- & Gnatvsn.Current
Copyright (C) 1987-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Benjamin Chelf <chelf@codesourcery.com> 
Copyright 1987-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Michael Tiemann (tiemann@cygnus.com)
Copyright (C) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2012 Free Software Foundation Originally by Alexandre Oliva <aoliva@redhat.com> 
Copyright 2002-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by C.Nettleton J.P.Parkes and P.Garbett
Copyright (C) 2001-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by David S. Miller (davem@redhat.com) 
Copyright (C) 1996-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ian Lance Taylor <ian@cygnus.com>. 
Copyright (C) 2006-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Paul Thomas 
Copyright 2009-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Simon Baldwin <simonb@google.com>
Copyright 2007-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Paul Thomas and Brooks Moses
Copyright 2002-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andy Vaught and Paul Brook <paul@nowt.org>
Copyright 1991-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. -- -- -- -- GNAT is free software
copyright notices to 2018
Copyright 1997 Borland Corp. and is based on zlib
Copyright 2003 Cosmin Truta. Derived from original sources by Bob Dellaca
Copyright 1996-1999 Silicon Graphics Computer Systems Inc
Copyright (C) 2001-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Originally by Gerald Pfeifer <pfeifer@dbai.tuwien.ac.at> June 
Copyright (C) 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2007 2010 James Theiler Brian Gough template
Copyright 2002-2003, 2009-2012 ARM Ltd
Copyright (C) 2000 Free Software Foundation. Added extra line-breaks to check that diagnostics refer to correct token. --Per Bothner. 
Copyright 1996-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Richard Henderson
Copyright 1995-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written By Michael Meissner
Copyright Jean-loup Gailly Osma Ahvenlampi <Osma.Ahvenlampi@hut.fi>
Copyright 2009-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Georg-Johann Lay <avr@gjlay.de>
Copyright (C) 2009-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Rafael Espindola <espindola@google.com> 
Copyright (C) 1999-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Kazumoto Kojima <kkojima@rr.iij4u.or.jp> 
Copyright 2007-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by CodeSourcery Inc
Copyright 2003-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Jan Hubicka
Copyright (C) 2004-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Janus Weil <janus@gcc.gnu.org>. 
Copyright 2003-2004 Randolph Chung <tausq@debian.org>
Copyright (C) 1993-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Kresten Krab Thorup and Dennis Glatting. 
Copyright 1990-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Richard Kenner (kenner@vlsi1.ultra.nyu.edu)
Copyright (C) 1999-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Steve Ellcey <sje@cup.hp.com> and Reva Cuthbertson <reva@cup.hp.com> 
Copyright (C) 1997-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Russell King <rmk92@ecs.soton.ac.uk>. 
Copyright 2008-2010, 2012 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Ralf Wildenhues <Ralf.Wildenhues@gmx.de>
Copyright 2003-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Red Hat
Copyright 1992-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Steve Chamberlain (sac@cygnus.com) Jim Wilson (wilson@cygnus.com) and Doug Evans (dje@cygnus.com)
Copyright 1995-2017 Jean-Loup Gailly Mark Adler. OS
Copyright (C) 2016-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Claudiu Zissulescu <claziss@synopsys.com> 
Copyright 2007-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Revital Eres (eres@il.ibm.com)
Copyright 2004-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Robert Millan
Copyright (C) 2013 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Jakub Jelinek Red Hat Inc. 
Copyright (C) 2000 Free Software Foundation Adapted by Nathan Sidwell 
Copyright (c) 2008 Wolfgang Moser http 
Copyright 1997 Christian Michelsen Research AS Advanced Computing
Copyright 1999, 2008 The Open Group The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers Inc
Copyright (c) 2007 by Till Harbaum <till@harbaum.org> 
Copyright 2011-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Dmitry Vyukov <dvyukov@google.com>
Copyright 1998-2009 The Free Software Foundation Inc
Copyright 1997-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Ian Lance Taylor Cygnus Solutions
Copyright 2011 Plausible Labs Cooperative Inc
Copyright (C) 2000 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Mark Mitchell 
Copyright (c) 1996-2003 Red Hat Inc. Target configuration macros for Motorola 68K. 
Copyright 2001-2002, 2007 Free Software Foundation. by Hans-Peter Nilsson <hp@axis.com>
Copyright (C) 2007-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Richard Henderson <rth@redhat.com> Ian Lance Taylor <iant@google.com> 
Copyright 2003 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Bruno Haible <bruno@clisp.org>
Copyright (C) 2006 Free Software Foundation Inc. Original test by Hans-Peter Nilsson <hp@bitrange.com> 
Copyright 2008-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Michael Eager (eager@eagercon.com)
Copyright 1996-2014 Anthony Green Red Hat Inc and others
(c) 2016 John David Anglin based on src pa linux.S 
Copyright 1997 Borland Corp
Copyright 2003-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andrew MacLeod <amacleod@redhat.com>
Copyright 2002-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Gabriel Dos Reis <gdr@integrable-solutions.net>
Copyright 2000 Addison Wesley Inc
Copyright 2011-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Kostya Serebryany <kcc@google.com>
Copyright (c) 2002 2003 2004 2010 Free Software Foundation Inc. based on ppc
Copyright 1994-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. dnl
Copyright 2010, 2014-2015, 2020 year to
Copyright 2004-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ayal Zaks and Mustafa Hagog
Copyright (C) 2013-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Manuel Lopez-Ibanez <manu@gcc.gnu.org> 
Copyright (C) 2001-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Richard Henderson (rth@redhat.com) 
Copyright 1983, 1987, 1990, 2014 Regents of the University of California
Copyright (c) 2012 Tilera Corp. Target configuration macros for TILE. 
Copyright 2002 Free Software Foundation Inc. Ales Nyakhaychyk <nyakhaychyk@i18n.linux.by>
Copyright 2009-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ben Elliston (bje@au.ibm.com)
Copyright 2012-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Alan Modra IBM
Copyright 2013-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andreas Krebbel <krebbel@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright (C) 2010-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Adapted from tree-pretty-print.
Copyright 1999 Citrus Project
Copyright (C) 2010-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Marcus Shawcroft (marcus.shawcroft@arm.com) 64bit Atomics by Dave Gilbert (david.gilbert@linaro.org) 
Copyright (c) 2013 Tensilica Inc. Target configuration macros for XTENSA. 
Copyright 2007-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Peter Bergner <bergner@vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright (C) 2000 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Loren J. Rittle 
Copyright 2001-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Jakub Jelinek <jakub@redhat.com>
Copyright 2003-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Feng Wang <wf_cs@yahoo.com>
Copyright 1995-2003 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Ulrich Drepper <drepper@cygnus.com>
Copyright 2004-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Richard Henderson <rth@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 1997-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ovidiu Predescu (ovidiu@net-community.com). 
Copyright 1989-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Apple Computer Inc
Copyright (C) 2015-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Imagination Technologies Ltd. 
Copyright 1995-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Cygnus Support
Copyright (C) 1996-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. -- -- -- -- GARLIC is free software you can redistribute it and or modify it under -- 
Copyright 1984, 1987, 1989, 1992, 2000-2001 Stephen L. Moshier
Copyright 1998-2010 Gilles Vollant Even Rouault Mathias Svensson
Copyright 1992-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. -- -- -- --
Copyright textcopyright 2014-2016
Copyright 1992-2018 AdaCore -- -- -- -- GNAT is free software
Copyright 2002 Ranjit Mathew
Copyright (C) 2009-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Arthur Loiret <aloiret@debian.org> 
Copyright 2011-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Walter Lee (walt@tilera.com)
Copyright 2011-2012 Tilera Corp
Copyright 2007-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Richard Guenther <rguenther@suse.de>
Copyright (C) 2004-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. echo echo This file is part of GCC. 
Copyright (C) 1992-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Tim Moore (moore@cs.utah.edu) based on sparc.
Copyright 2002-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Aldy Hernandez (aldyh@redhat.com). Rewritten by Paolo Bonzini (bonzini@gnu.org)
Copyright 2014-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Richard Biener <rguenther@suse.de> and Prathamesh Kulkarni <bilbotheelffriend@gmail.com>
Copyright (C) 2015-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ajit Kumar Agarwal <ajitkum@xilinx.com>. 
Copyright 2012-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Pekka Jaaskelainen <pekka.jaaskelainen@parmance.com> for General Processor Tech
Copyright 2005-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Francois-Xavier Coudert <coudert@clipper.ens.fr>
Copyright 2007 Free Software Foundation Contributed by Ollie Wild <aaw@google.com> Origin Volker Reichelt <reichelt@gcc.gnu.org>
Copyright (C) 2009 Canonical Ltd. Author Kees Cook <kees@ubuntu.com> License GPLv3 
Copyright 2000-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Hans-Peter Nilsson (hp@bitrange.com)
Copyright (C) 2002-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Paul Brook <paul@nowt.org and Steven Bosscher <s.bosscher@student.tudelft.nl> 
Copyright 1996-2001, 2003-2009 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Gordon Matzigkeit
Copyright 1986 University of Toronto. -- --
Copyright 2013 Mentor Graphics
Copyright (C) 2003-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Updated by CodeSourcery LLC. 
Copyright (C) 2010 2011 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Tobias Burnus <burnus@net-b.de> 
Copyright (c) 2008 Red Hat Inc. derived from unix64.S 
Copyright 2007 Free Software Foundation Contributed by Andreas Krebbel <Andreas.Krebbel@de.ibm.com> 
Copyright 2013, 2015 NVIDIA Corp
Copyright 2009-2012 the contributors listed in CREDITS.TXT
Copyright 1987-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Hacked by Michael Tiemann (tiemann@cygnus.com)
Copyright (C) 2012-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andes Technology Corporation.for NDS32. 
Copyright (C) 2003-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by P.J. Darcy (darcypj@us.ibm.com) Hartmut Penner (hpenner@de.ibm.com) and 
Copyright (C) 2002-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by J orn Rennecke <joern.rennecke@superh.com> 
Copyright 2002-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Nathan Sidwell <nathan@codesourcery.com>
Copyright 1995-1997 C H Forsyth (forsyth@terzarima.net)
Copyright (C) 1997-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by John Carr (jfc@mit.edu). 
Copyright 1994 HEWLETT-PACKARD Co
Copyright 1998 Andreas R. Kleinert
Copyright 1998-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Mark Mitchell (mark@markmitchell.com)
Copyright 2009-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Michael Meissner (meissner@linux.vnet.ibm.com)
Copyright (C) 2002 Free Software Foundation. by Hans-Peter Nilsson <hp@bitrange.com> derived from mzero2.
Copyright 2003-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Dorit Naishlos <dorit@il.ibm.com>
Copyright (C) 2002-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Andy Vaught Namelist input contributed by Paul Thomas 
Copyright (C) 2005 Free Software Foundation Inc. PR 
(C) 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2017 Free Software Foundation Originally by Gerald Pfeifer <gerald@pfeifer.com> August 
Copyright (C) 2000-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by James E. Wilson <wilson@cygnus.com>. 
Copyright (C) 2002-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Wasabi Systems. Inc. 
Copyright 2006-2008 Free Software Foundation Inc. PR preprocessor
Copyright 2001 Free Software Foundation Inc. msgid
Copyright 2000-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Paul Brook <paul@nowt.org>
Copyright 2002 Free Software Foundation Inc. Source Neil Booth
Copyright 2000-2005 Free Software Foundation Contributed by Kriang Lerdsuwanakij <lerdsuwa@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright 1991-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. -- -- -- -- GNARL is free software
Copyright 2008-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Richard Henderson <rth@redhat.com> and Aldy Hernandez <aldyh@redhat.com>
Copyright 2010-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Ian Lance Taylor Google
Copyright 1994-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributor Joern Rennecke <joern.rennecke@embecosm.com> on behalf of Synopsys Inc
Copyright 2004 Renesas Technology
Copyright (c) 2000 2001 2002 2007 2008 Free Software Foundation Inc. & E
Copyright 1996-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Galen C. Hunt (gchunt@cs.rochester.edu)
Copyright (c) 2008 David Daney 
Copyright (C) 1999-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Vladimir Makarov <vmakarov@cygnus.com>. 
Copyright (C) 1992-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Steve Naroff. 
Copyright 2013 Tensilica Inc
Copyright 2008-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Thomas Koenig <tkoenig@gcc.gnu.org> based on spread
Copyright (C) 2003 Free Software Foundation. Check that size-optimizations for move insns 
copyright and license notices. ChangeLog ChangeLog-2005
Copyright 2001 Stephen L. Moshier <moshier@na-net.ornl.gov> and are Inc herein by
Copyright 2006 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Carlos O'Donell on
Copyright 1984, 1991 Stephen L. Moshier Adapted for glibc November
COPYRIGHT SIGN (16 000AA 16
Copyright 2003-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Kelley Cook June
Copyright (C) 1999-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Mumit Khan <khan@xraylith.wisc.edu>. Modified and moved to separate file by Danny Smith 
(C) 2013 Free Software Foundation Contributed by Tobias Burnus 
Copyright 1999-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Nathan Sidwell
Copyright (C) 2014-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Yury Gribov <y.gribov@samsung.com> 
Copyright 1999-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Mark Mitchell <mark@codesourcery.com>
Copyright 2000, 2015 notice and
Copyright 1989-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Mike Stump <mrs@cygnus.com>
Copyright 2012 Google Inc. Package foo does bar. 
Copyright 1986-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Per Bothner
Copyright (c) 2011 Timothy Wall 
Copyright (C) 2015-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. -- -- -- -- S 
Copyright (C) 2011-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ian Lance Taylor Google. 
Copyright 1996, 2006-2007, 2010 to
Copyright 2002 Roger Sayle
Copyright 2001-2003 Peter Dimov and Multi Media Ltd
Copyright 2007-2018 AdaCore -- -- -- --
Copyright 2013-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by David Malcolm <dmalcolm@redhat.com>
Copyright (C) 2000-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Nick Clifton (nickc@redhat.com) 
Copyright 2009-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Michael Meissner <meissner@linux.vnet.ibm.com>
Copyright 2014 Sebastian Macke <sebastian@macke.de>
Copyright (C) 2003-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by kejia Zhao 
Copyright (C) 1999-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Philip Blundell <pb@nexus.co.uk> 
Copyright 1995-1999 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ulrich Drepper <drepper@gnu.ai.mit.edu>
Copyright 1999-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Hartmut Penner (hpenner@de.ibm.com) and Ulrich Weigand (uweigand@de.ibm.com) and
Copyright 2000-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Jes Sorensen <Jes.Sorensen@cern.ch>
Copyright 1998 Bob Dellaca
Copyright 2000-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Paul Brook
Copyright 2004-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Kenneth Zadeck <zadeck@naturalbridge.com>
Copyright 2000-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Mark Mitchell <mark@codesourcery.com>
Copyright (C) 2014-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Roman Gareev <gareevroman@gmail.com>. 
Copyright 1991-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ron Guilmette (rfg@monkeys.com)
Copyright 1995-2017 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler
Copyright (c) 2012 Alexandre K. I. de Mendonca <alexandre.keunecke@gmail.com> 
Copyright (C) 2006-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Sebastian Pop <sebastian.pop@inria.fr>. 
Copyright 1990-1991, 2014 The Regents of the University of California
Copyright (C) 1995-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Mostly written by Jason Merrill (jason@cygnus.com). 
Copyright (C) 2002-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Zack Weinberg <zack@codesourcery.com 
Copyright (c) 2012 2013 Anthony Green Target configuration macros for Moxie 
Copyright (c) 2008 Red Hat Inc - 
Copyright 1994-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Richard Earnshaw (richard.earnshaw@arm.com)
Copyright (C) 1996-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by David S. Miller (davem@caip.rutgers.edu) 
Copyright (C) 1989-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by James Clark (jjc@jclark.uucp) Rewritten by Fred Fish (fnf@cygnus.com) for ARM and Lucid demangling 
Copyright 2005-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by IBM Corp. Author Mike Cowlishaw
COPYRIGHT SIGN Ll -- (16 000AA 16
Copyright 2001 Stephen L. Moshier (moshier@na-net.ornl.gov)
Copyright 2012-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Sriraman Tallam (tmsriram@google.com)
Copyright 2013 The Written Word Inc
Copyright (C) 2009-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Alan Modra <amodra@gmail.com>. 
Copyright (C) 2001-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Daniel Berlin <dan@dberlin.org> and Steven Bosscher <stevenb@suse.de> 
Copyright 1991-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by ARM Ltd
Copyright 1994 X Consortium
Copyright (c) 1996-2003 Red Hat Inc. Target configuration macros for CRIS. 
Copyright &copy 1998 by Information Technology Industry Council. 
Copyright (c) 1996-2003 Red Hat Inc. Target configuration macros for SuperH. 
Copyright (c) 1996-2003 Red Hat Inc. Target configuration macros for hppa. 
copyright notice Add 2004
Copyright 1994 Free Software Foundation Inc. Verbatim copying and redistribution of
Copyright (c) 2000 2001 Free Software Foundation. Distilled from 
Copyright 2004, 2008, 2011-2014 Anthony Green
Copyright 2007-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ben Elliston (bje@au.ibm.com) and Peter Bergner (bergner@vnet.ibm.com)
Copyright 2012-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Ilya Enkovich
Copyright 2014-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Contributed by Kai Tietz <ktietz@redhat.com>


google-protobuf version 3.7.1
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>


// Protocol Buffers - Google's data interchange format
// Copyright 2008 Google Inc.  All rights reserved.
// https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/
//
// Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
// modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
// met:
//
//     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
// notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
//     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
// copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer
// in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
// distribution.
//     * Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its
// contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
// this software without specific prior written permission.
//
// THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
// "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
// LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
// A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
// OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
// SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
// LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
// DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
// THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
// (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
// OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

// Author: kenton@google.com (Kenton Varda)
//  Based on original Protocol Buffers design by
//  Sanjay Ghemawat, Jeff Dean, and others.
//
// Implements parsing of .proto files to FileDescriptorProtos.

>>> missing, libtool.m4, 

# Copyright (C) 1996-2014 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
# Originally written by Fran,cois Pinard <pinard@iro.umontreal.ca>, 1996.

# This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
# it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
# the Free Software Foundation; either version 2, or (at your option)
# any later version.

# This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
# but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
# MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
# GNU General Public License for more details.

# You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
# along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

# As a special exception to the GNU General Public License, if you
# distribute this file as part of a program that contains a
# configuration script generated by Autoconf, you may include it under
# the same distribution terms that you use for the rest of that program.

>>> googletest/googlemock

                                 Apache License
                           Version 2.0, January 2004
                        http://www.apache.org/licenses/

   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

   1. Definitions.

      "License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction,
      and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

      "Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by
      the copyright owner that is granting the License.

      "Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all
      other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common
      control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition,
      "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the
      direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or
      otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the
      outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.

      "You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity
      exercising permissions granted by this License.

      "Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,
      including but not limited to software source code, documentation
      source, and configuration files.

      "Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical
      transformation or translation of a Source form, including but
      not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation,
      and conversions to other media types.

      "Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or
      Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a
      copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work
      (an example is provided in the Appendix below).

      "Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object
      form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the
      editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications
      represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes
      of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain
      separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of,
      the Work and Derivative Works thereof.

      "Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including
      the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions
      to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally
      submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner
      or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of
      the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted"
      means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent
      to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to
      communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems,
      and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the
      Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but
      excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise
      designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."

      "Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity
      on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and
      subsequently incorporated within the Work.

   2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of,
      publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the
      Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.

   3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made,
      use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work,
      where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable
      by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their
      Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s)
      with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You
      institute patent litigation against any entity (including a
      cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work
      or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct
      or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses
      granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate
      as of the date such litigation is filed.

   4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the
      Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without
      modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You
      meet the following conditions:

      (a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or
          Derivative Works a copy of this License; and

      (b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices
          stating that You changed the files; and

      (c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works
          that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and
          attribution notices from the Source form of the Work,
          excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of
          the Derivative Works; and

      (d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its
          distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must
          include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained
          within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not
          pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one
          of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed
          as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or
          documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or,
          within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and
          wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents
          of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and
          do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution
          notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside
          or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided
          that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed
          as modifying the License.

      You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and
      may provide additional or different license terms and conditions
      for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or
      for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use,
      reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with
      the conditions stated in this License.

   5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise,
      any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work
      by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of
      this License, without any additional terms or conditions.
      Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify
      the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed
      with Licensor regarding such Contributions.

   6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade
      names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor,
      except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the
      origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

   7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or
      agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each
      Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS,
      WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
      implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions
      of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A
      PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the
      appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any
      risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.

   8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory,
      whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise,
      unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly
      negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be
      liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special,
      incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a
      result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the
      Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill,
      work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all
      other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor
      has been advised of the possibility of such damages.

   9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing
      the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer,
      and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity,
      or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this
      License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only
      on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf
      of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify,
      defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability
      incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason
      of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.

   END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

   APPENDIX: How to apply the Apache License to your work.

      To apply the Apache License to your work, attach the following
      boilerplate notice, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]"
      replaced with your own identifying information. (Don't include
      the brackets!)  The text should be enclosed in the appropriate
      comment syntax for the file format. We also recommend that a
      file or class name and description of purpose be included on the
      same "printed page" as the copyright notice for easier
      identification within third-party archives.

   Copyright [2007] Neal Norwitz
   Portions Copyright [2007] Google Inc.

   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.

# Attempt to guess a canonical system name.
#   Copyright 1992-2018 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

timestamp='2018-02-24'

# This file is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
# under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
# the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
# (at your option) any later version.
#
# This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
# WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
# MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
# General Public License for more details.
#
# You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
# along with this program; if not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
#
# As a special exception to the GNU General Public License, if you
# distribute this file as part of a program that contains a
# configuration script generated by Autoconf, you may include it under
# the same distribution terms that you use for the rest of that
# program.  This Exception is an additional permission under section 7
# of the GNU General Public License, version 3 ("GPLv3").
#
# Originally written by Per Bothner; maintained since 2000 by Ben Elliston.
#
# You can get the latest version of this script from:
# https://git.savannah.gnu.org/gitweb/©p=config.git;a=blob_plain;f=config.guess
#
# Please send patches to <config-patches@gnu.org>.

>>>> thirdparty/jsoncpp 1.6.5
/ //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
// Beginning of content of file: LICENSE
// //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

/*
The JsonCpp library's source code, including accompanying documentation, 
tests and demonstration applications, are licensed under the following
conditions...

The author (Baptiste Lepilleur) explicitly disclaims copyright in all 
jurisdictions which recognize such a disclaimer. In such jurisdictions, 
this software is released into the Public Domain.

In jurisdictions which do not recognize Public Domain property (e.g. Germany as of
2010), this software is Copyright (c) 2007-2010 by Baptiste Lepilleur, and is
released under the terms of the MIT License (see below).

In jurisdictions which recognize Public Domain property, the user of this 
software may choose to accept it either as 1) Public Domain, 2) under the 
conditions of the MIT License (see below), or 3) under the terms of dual 
Public Domain/MIT License conditions described here, as they choose.

The MIT License is about as close to Public Domain as a license can get, and is
described in clear, concise terms at:

   http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MIT_License
   
The full text of the MIT License follows:

========================================================================
Copyright (c) 2007-2010 Baptiste Lepilleur

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person
obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation
files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without
restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy,
modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies
of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS
BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN
ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
========================================================================
(END LICENSE TEXT)

The MIT license is compatible with both the GPL and commercial
software, affording one all of the rights of Public Domain with the
minor nuisance of being required to keep the above copyright notice
and license text in the source code. Note also that by accepting the
Public Domain "license" you can re-license your copy using whatever
license you like.

*/

// //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
// End of content of file: LICENSE
// //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////


>>> m4
#
# LICENSE
#
#   Copyright (c) 2008 Benjamin Kosnik <bkoz@redhat.com>
#   Copyright (c) 2012 Zack Weinberg <zackw@panix.com>
#   Copyright (c) 2013 Roy Stogner <roystgnr@ices.utexas.edu>
#   Copyright (c) 2014, 2015 Google Inc.; contributed by Alexey Sokolov <sokolov@google.com>
#   Copyright (c) 2015 Paul Norman <penorman@mac.com>
#   Copyright (c) 2015 Moritz Klammler <moritz@klammler.eu>
#   Copyright (c) 2016 Krzesimir Nowak <qdlacz@gmail.com>
#
#   Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
#   permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
#   and this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is, without any
#   warranty.

#
#   Copyright (c) 2008 Paolo Bonzini <bonzini@gnu.org>
#
#   Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
#   permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
#   and this notice are preserved. This file is offered as-is, without any
#   warranty.

# LICENSE
#
#   Copyright (c) 2008 Paolo Bonzini <bonzini@gnu.org>
#   Copyright (c) 2012 Avionic Design GmbH
#
#   Based on the AX_PROG_CC_FOR_BUILD macro by Paolo Bonzini.
#
#   Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification, are
#   permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright notice
#   and this notice are preserved. This file is offered as-is, without any
#   warranty.



Copyright 1996-2014 Free Software Foundation Inc. Originally written by Fran cois Pinard <pinard@iro.umontreal.ca>
Copyright 1999-2014 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Tom Tromey <tromey@cygnus.com>
Copyright 2007 Neal Norwitz
Copyright 1996-2015 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Gordon Matzigkeit
Copyright 2007-2011 Baptiste Lepilleur Distributed
Copyright 2008 Paolo Bonzini <bonzini@gnu.org>
Copyright 2015 Paul Norman <penorman@mac.com>
Copyright 2013 Roy Stogner <roystgnr@ices.utexas.edu>
Copyright 2007-2010 Baptiste Lepilleur and is released
Copyright (c) 2012 Avionic Design GmbH 
Copyright (C) 2010-2017 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Peter Rosin <peda@lysator.liu.se>. 
Copyright 2016 Krzesimir Nowak <qdlacz@gmail.com>
Copyright 2004-2015 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Gary V. Vaughan
Copyright 2014-2015 Google Inc. contributed by Alexey Sokolov <sokolov@google.com>
Copyright 2015 Moritz Klammler <moritz@klammler.eu>
Copyright 2007-2010 Baptiste Lepilleur
Copyright 2004-2015 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Scott James Remnant
Copyright 2008 Benjamin Kosnik <bkoz@redhat.com>
Copyright 1992-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc
Copyright 2012 Zack Weinberg <zackw@panix.com>
Copyright 2005-2008, 2012, 2014 Google Inc


google-protoc version 3.7.1
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>


// Protocol Buffers - Google's data interchange format
// Copyright 2008 Google Inc.  All rights reserved.
// https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/
//
// Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
// modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
// met:
//
//     * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
// notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
//     * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
// copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer
// in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
// distribution.
//     * Neither the name of Google Inc. nor the names of its
// contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
// this software without specific prior written permission.
//
// THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
// "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
// LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
// A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
// OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
// SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
// LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
// DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
// THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
// (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
// OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.



    ('  &   sv9999bha`_QUTSRCBA@©>=<G  Y
Copyright 2005-2006, 2008, 2012, 2014 Google Inc




javafx-base version 11.0.2
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>


This  was scanned and audited using the JRE Project     

                 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT LICENSING

Certain files distributed by Oracle America, Inc. and/or its affiliates are 
subject to the following clarification and special exception to the GPLv2, 
based on the GNU Project exception for its Classpath libraries, known as the 
GNU Classpath Exception.

Note that Oracle includes multiple, independent programs in this software 
package.  Some of those programs are provided under licenses deemed 
incompatible with the GPLv2 by the Free Software Foundation and others. 
For example, the package includes programs licensed under the Apache 
License, Version 2.0 and may include FreeType. Such programs are licensed 
to you under their original licenses. 

Oracle facilitates your further distribution of this package by adding the 
Classpath Exception to the necessary parts of its GPLv2 code, which permits 
you to use that code in combination with other independent modules not 
licensed under the GPLv2. However, note that this would not permit you to 
commingle code under an incompatible license with Oracle's GPLv2 licensed 
code by, for example, cutting and pasting such code into a file also 
containing Oracle's GPLv2 licensed code and then distributing the result. 

Additionally, if you were to remove the Classpath Exception from any of the 
files to which it applies and distribute the result, you would likely be 
required to license some or all of the other code in that distribution under 
the GPLv2 as well, and since the GPLv2 is incompatible with the license terms 
of some items included in the distribution by Oracle, removing the Classpath 
Exception could therefore effectively compromise your ability to further 
distribute the package. 

Failing to distribute notices associated with some files may also create 
unexpected legal consequences.
 
Proceed with caution and we recommend that you obtain the advice of a lawyer 
skilled in open source matters before removing the Classpath Exception or 
making modifications to this package which may subsequently be redistributed 
and/or involve the use of third party software.

>>>>>
The text of the GNU General Public License, Version 2 (June 1991), a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, or as applicable, applies to the above-listed file(s).



Copyright 1989, 1991, 1999 Free Software Foundation Inc
Copyright 1996, 1998, 2013 Oracle and or its affiliates
Copyright 1995-2016 International Business Machines Corp and others
Copyright 2013 Brian Eugene Wilson Robert Martin Campbell
Copyright 1991-2018 Unicode Inc
Copyright 2000-2003 Nara Institute of Science and Technology
Copyright 1998-2012 Daniel Veillard
Copyright 2013 LeRoy Benjamin Sharon
Copyright 2006-2011 the
Copyright 1996 Chih-Hao Tsai
Copyright 1999 Computer Systems and Communication Lab Institute of Information Science Academia Sinica
Copyright 2006-2008 Google Inc
Copyright 1999 Pai-Hsiang Hsiao
Copyright 1999 TaBE Project


jaxb-api version 2.3.0
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
The text of the COMMON DEVELOPMENT AND DISTRIBUTION LICENSE (CDDL) Version 1.1, a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, and as applicable applies to the above-listed file(s).

The text of the GNU Lesser General Public License, Version 2, a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, and as applicable applies to the above-listed file(s), together with the "CLASSPATH" EXCEPTION TO THE GPL VERSION 2:

Certain source files distributed by Oracle are subject to the following clarification and special exception to the GPL Version 2, but only where Oracle has expressly included in the particular source file's header the words "Oracle designates this particular file as subject to the "Classpath" exception as provided by Oracle in the License file that accompanied this code."

Linking this library statically or dynamically with other modules is making a combined work based on this library.  Thus, the terms and conditions of the GNU General Public License Version 2 cover the whole combination.

As a special exception, the copyright holders of this library give you permission to link this library with independent modules to produce an executable, regardless of the license terms of these independent modules, and to copy and distribute the resulting executable under terms of your choice, provided that you also meet, for each linked independent module, the terms and conditions of the license of that module.  An independent module is a module which is not derived from or based on this library.  If you modify this library, you may extend this exception to your version of the library, but you are not obligated to do so.  If you do not wish to do so, delete this exception statement from your version.



Copyright &copy 2004-2017 Oracle 
Copyright 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation Inc
Copyright 1997-2018 Oracle and or its affiliates
Copyright 2002 2003 BEA Systems Inc. 












libstdc++ version 4.8.0
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
Copyright (c) 1994-2011 Free Software Foundation

This file is part of the libstdc++ version 3 distribution and/or the GNU ISO C++ Library.  
This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 3, or (at your option) any later version.

This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.

Under Section 7 of GPL version 3, you are granted additional permissions described in the GCC Runtime Library Exception, version 3.1, as published by the Free Software Foundation.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this library; see the file COPYING3.  If not see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

+++++++++++++++++++++

The text of the GCC RUNTIME LIBRARY EXCEPTION Version 3.1 (31 March 2009), a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here.

+++++++++++++++++++++

The text of the GNU Lesser General Public License, Version 3 (29 June 2007), a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, or as applicable, applies to the above-listed file(s).

+++++++++++++++++++++

The text of the GNU General Public License, Version 3 (29 June 2007), a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, or as applicable, applies to the above-listed file(s).

+++++++++++++++++++++

The text of the GNU Lesser General Public License, Version 2.1 (February 1999), a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, or as applicable, applies to the above-listed file(s).

+++++++++++++++++++++

The text of the GNU General Public License, Version 2 (June 1991), a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, or as applicable, applies to the above-listed file(s).

+++++++++++++++++++++

Copyright 2001 Benjamin Kosnik <bkoz@redhat.com>
Copyright (c) 2002-2009 Gabriel Dos Reis gdr@integrable-solutions.net
Copyright (c) 2002-2009 Benjamin Kosnik bkoz@redhat.com

Permission to use, copy, modify, sell, and distribute this software is hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appears in all copies, and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation. None of the above authors, nor IBM Haifa Research Laboratories, make any representation about the suitability of this software for any purpose. It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with this library; see the file COPYING.  If not, write to the Free Software Foundation, 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.

As a special exception, you may use this file as part of a free software library without restriction.  Specifically, if other files instantiate templates or use macros or inline functions from this file, or you compile this file and link it with other files to produce an executable, this file does not by itself cause the resulting executable to be covered by the GNU General Public License.  This exception does not however invalidate any other reasons why the executable file might be covered by the GNU General Public License.

+++++++++++++++++++++

Certain files copyright (c) Jeremy Siek 2000. Permission to copy, use, modify, sell and distribute this software is granted provided this copyright notice appears in all copies. This software is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty, and with no claim as to its suitability for any purpose.


+++++++++++++++++++++
Certain files are distributed under the Boost Software License, Version 1.0. a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document













lpsolve version 5.5
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
The text of the GNU Lesser General Public License, Version 2.1, a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, or as applicable, applies to the above-listed file(s).

*************************************************

Harwell-Boeing File I/O in C
V. 1.0

National Institute of Standards and Technology, MD.
K.A. Remington

NOTICE

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both the copyright notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation.

Neither the Author nor the Institution (National Institute of Standards and Technology) make any representations about the suitability of this software for any purpose. This software is provided "as is" without expressed or implied warranty.


Copyright 1998-2001 the University of Florida
Copyright 1984, 1989-1991, 1999-2006 Free Software Foundation Inc
Copyright  1991 2010 Free Software Foundation Inc. VALUE OriginalFilename lpsolve55.dll VALUE ProductName lpsolve 













oasys-rtl version 11.3
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
End-User License Agreement
The latest version of the End-User License Agreement is available on-line at:
www.mentor.com/eula
END-USER LICENSE AGREEMENT (©Agreement©)
This is a legal agreement concerning the use of Software (as defined in Section 2) and hardware (collectively ©Products©)
between the company acquiring the Products (©Customer©), and the Mentor Graphics entity that issued the corresponding
quotation or, if no quotation was issued, the applicable local Mentor Graphics entity (©Mentor Graphics©). Except for license
agreements related to the subject matter of this license agreement which are physically signed by Customer and an authorized
representative of Mentor Graphics, this Agreement and the applicable quotation contain the parties© entire understanding
relating to the subject matter and supersede all prior or contemporaneous agreements. If Customer does not agree to these
terms and conditions, promptly return or, in the case of Software received electronically, certify destruction of Software and all
accompanying items within five days after receipt of Software and receive a full refund of any license fee paid.
1. ORDERS, FEES AND PAYMENT.
1.1. To the extent Customer (or if agreed by Mentor Graphics, Customer©s appointed third party buying agent) places and Mentor
Graphics accepts purchase orders pursuant to this Agreement (each an ©Order©), each Order will constitute a contract between
Customer and Mentor Graphics, which shall be governed solely and exclusively by the terms and conditions of this Agreement,
any applicable addenda and the applicable quotation, whether or not those documents are referenced on the Order. Any
additional or conflicting terms and conditions appearing on an Order or presented in any electronic portal or automated order
management system, whether or not required to be electronically accepted, will not be effective unless agreed in writing and
physically signed by an authorized representative of Customer and Mentor Graphics.
1.2. Amounts invoiced will be paid, in the currency specified on the applicable invoice, within 30 days from the date of such invoice.
Any past due invoices will be subject to the imposition of interest charges in the amount of one and one-half percent per month
or the applicable legal rate currently in effect, whichever is lower. Prices do not include freight, insurance, customs duties, taxes
or other similar charges, which Mentor Graphics will state separately in the applicable invoice. Unless timely provided with a
valid certificate of exemption or other evidence that items are not taxable, Mentor Graphics will invoice Customer for all
applicable taxes including, but not limited to, VAT, GST, sales tax, consumption tax and service tax. Customer will make all
payments free and clear of, and without reduction for, any withholding or other taxes; any such taxes imposed on payments by
Customer hereunder will be Customer©s sole responsibility. If Customer appoints a third party to place purchase orders and/or
make payments on Customer©s behalf, Customer shall be liable for payment under Orders placed by such third party in the event
of default.
1.3. All Products are delivered FCA factory (Incoterms 2010), freight prepaid and invoiced to Customer, except Software delivered
electronically, which shall be deemed delivered when made available to Customer for download. Mentor Graphics retains a
security interest in all Products delivered under this Agreement, to secure payment of the purchase price of such Products, and
Customer agrees to sign any documents that Mentor Graphics determines to be necessary or convenient for use in filing or
perfecting such security interest. Mentor Graphics© delivery of Software by electronic means is subject to Customer©s provision
of both a primary and an alternate e-mail address.
2. GRANT OF LICENSE. The software installed, downloaded, or otherwise acquired by Customer under this Agreement, including any
updates, modifications, revisions, copies, documentation, setup files and design data (©Software©) are copyrighted, trade secret and
confidential information of Mentor Graphics or its licensors, who maintain exclusive title to all Software and retain all rights not
expressly granted by this Agreement. Except for Software that is embeddable (©Embedded Software©), which is licensed pursuant to
separate embedded software terms or an embedded software supplement, Mentor Graphics grants to Customer, subject to payment of
applicable license fees, a nontransferable, nonexclusive license to use Software solely: (a) in machine-readable, object-code form
(except as provided in Subsection 4.2); (b) for Customer©s internal business purposes; (c) for the term of the license; and (d) on the
computer hardware and at the site authorized by Mentor Graphics. A site is restricted to a one-half mile (800 meter) radius. Customer
may have Software temporarily used by an employee for telecommuting purposes from locations other than a Customer office, such as
the employee©s residence, an airport or hotel, provided that such employee©s primary place of employment is the site where the
Software is authorized for use. Mentor Graphics© standard policies and programs, which vary depending on Software, license fees paid
or services purchased, apply to the following: (a) relocation of Software; (b) use of Software, which may be limited, for example, to
execution of a single session by a single user on the authorized hardware or for a restricted period of time (such limitations may be
technically implemented through the use of authorization codes or similar devices); and (c) support services provided, including
eligibility to receive telephone support, updates, modifications, and revisions. For the avoidance of doubt, if Customer provides any
feedback or requests any change or enhancement to Products, whether in the course of receiving support or consulting services,
evaluating Products, performing beta testing or otherwise, any inventions, product improvements, modifications or developments made
by Mentor Graphics (at Mentor Graphics© sole discretion) will be the exclusive property of Mentor Graphics.
 IMPORTANT INFORMATION
USE OF ALL SOFTWARE IS SUBJECT TO LICENSE RESTRICTIONS. CAREFULLY READ THIS LICENSE
AGREEMENT BEFORE USING THE PRODUCTS. USE OF SOFTWARE INDICATES CUSTOMER©S COMPLETE
AND UNCONDITIONAL ACCEPTANCE OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT.
ANY ADDITIONAL OR DIFFERENT PURCHASE ORDER TERMS AND CONDITIONS SHALL NOT APPLY.
3. BETA CODE.
3.1. Portions or all of certain Software may contain code for experimental testing and evaluation (which may be either alpha or beta,
collectively ©Beta Code©), which may not be used without Mentor Graphics© explicit authorization. Upon Mentor Graphics©
authorization, Mentor Graphics grants to Customer a temporary, nontransferable, nonexclusive license for experimental use to
test and evaluate the Beta Code without charge for a limited period of time specified by Mentor Graphics. Mentor Graphics may
choose, at its sole discretion, not to release Beta Code commercially in any form.
3.2. If Mentor Graphics authorizes Customer to use the Beta Code, Customer agrees to evaluate and test the Beta Code under normal
conditions as directed by Mentor Graphics. Customer will contact Mentor Graphics periodically during Customer©s use of the
Beta Code to discuss any malfunctions or suggested improvements. Upon completion of Customer©s evaluation and testing,
Customer will send to Mentor Graphics a written evaluation of the Beta Code, including its strengths, weaknesses and
recommended improvements.
3.3. Customer agrees to maintain Beta Code in confidence and shall restrict access to the Beta Code, including the methods and
concepts utilized therein, solely to those employees and Customer location(s) authorized by Mentor Graphics to perform beta
testing. Customer agrees that any written evaluations and all inventions, product improvements, modifications or developments
that Mentor Graphics conceived or made during or subsequent to this Agreement, including those based partly or wholly on
Customer©s feedback, will be the exclusive property of Mentor Graphics. Mentor Graphics will have exclusive rights, title and
interest in all such property. The provisions of this Subsection 3.3 shall survive termination of this Agreement.
4. RESTRICTIONS ON USE.
4.1. Customer may copy Software only as reasonably necessary to support the authorized use. Each copy must include all notices
and legends embedded in Software and affixed to its medium and container as received from Mentor Graphics. All copies shall
remain the property of Mentor Graphics or its licensors. Except for Embedded Software that has been embedded in executable
code form in Customer©s product(s), Customer shall maintain a record of the number and primary location of all copies of
Software, including copies merged with other software, and shall make those records available to Mentor Graphics upon
request. Customer shall not make Products available in any form to any person other than Customer©s employees and on-site
contractors, excluding Mentor Graphics competitors, whose job performance requires access and who are under obligations of
confidentiality. Customer shall take appropriate action to protect the confidentiality of Products and ensure that any person
permitted access does not disclose or use Products except as permitted by this Agreement. Customer shall give Mentor Graphics
written notice of any unauthorized disclosure or use of the Products as soon as Customer becomes aware of such unauthorized
disclosure or use. Customer acknowledges that Software provided hereunder may contain source code which is proprietary and
its confidentiality is of the highest importance and value to Mentor Graphics. Customer acknowledges that Mentor Graphics
may be seriously harmed if such source code is disclosed in violation of this Agreement. Except as otherwise permitted for
purposes of interoperability as specified by applicable and mandatory local law, Customer shall not reverse-assemble,
disassemble, reverse-compile, or reverse-engineer any Product, or in any way derive any source code from Software that is not
provided to Customer in source code form. Log files, data files, rule files and script files generated by or for the Software
(collectively ©Files©), including without limitation files containing Standard Verification Rule Format (©SVRF©) and Tcl
Verification Format (©TVF©) which are Mentor Graphics© trade secret and proprietary syntaxes for expressing process rules,
constitute or include confidential information of Mentor Graphics. Customer may share Files with third parties, excluding
Mentor Graphics competitors, provided that the confidentiality of such Files is protected by written agreement at least as well as
Customer protects other information of a similar nature or importance, but in any case with at least reasonable care. Customer
may use Files containing SVRF or TVF only with Mentor Graphics products. Under no circumstances shall Customer use
Products or Files or allow their use for the purpose of developing, enhancing or marketing any product that is in any way
competitive with Products, or disclose to any third party the results of, or information pertaining to, any benchmark.
4.2. If any Software or portions thereof are provided in source code form, Customer will use the source code only to correct software
errors and enhance or modify the Software for the authorized use, or as permitted for Embedded Software under separate
embedded software terms or an embedded software supplement. Customer shall not disclose or permit disclosure of source
code, in whole or in part, including any of its methods or concepts, to anyone except Customer©s employees or on-site
contractors, excluding Mentor Graphics competitors, with a need to know. Customer shall not copy or compile source code in
any manner except to support this authorized use.
4.3. Customer agrees that it will not subject any Product to any open source software (©OSS©) license that conflicts with this
Agreement or that does not otherwise apply to such Product.
4.4. Customer may not assign this Agreement or the rights and duties under it, or relocate, sublicense, or otherwise transfer the
Products, whether by operation of law or otherwise (©Attempted Transfer©), without Mentor Graphics© prior written consent and
payment of Mentor Graphics© then-current applicable relocation and/or transfer fees. Any Attempted Transfer without Mentor
Graphics© prior written consent shall be a material breach of this Agreement and may, at Mentor Graphics© option, result in the
immediate termination of the Agreement and/or the licenses granted under this Agreement. The terms of this Agreement,
including without limitation the licensing and assignment provisions, shall be binding upon Customer©s permitted successors in
interest and assigns.
4.5. The provisions of this Section 4 shall survive the termination of this Agreement.
5. SUPPORT SERVICES. To the extent Customer purchases support services, Mentor Graphics will provide Customer with updates and
technical support for the Products, at the Customer site(s) for which support is purchased, in accordance with Mentor Graphics© then
current End-User Support Terms located at http://supportnet.mentor.com/supportterms.
6. OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE. Products may contain OSS or code distributed under a proprietary third party license agreement, to
which additional rights or obligations (©Third Party Terms©) may apply. Please see the applicable Product documentation (including
license files, header files, read-me files or source code) for details. In the event of conflict between the terms of this Agreement
(including any addenda) and the Third Party Terms, the Third Party Terms will control solely with respect to the OSS or third party
code. The provisions of this Section 6 shall survive the termination of this Agreement.
7. LIMITED WARRANTY.
7.1. Mentor Graphics warrants that during the warranty period its standard, generally supported Products, when properly installed,
will substantially conform to the functional specifications set forth in the applicable user manual. Mentor Graphics does not
warrant that Products will meet Customer©s requirements or that operation of Products will be uninterrupted or error free. The
warranty period is 90 days starting on the 15th day after delivery or upon installation, whichever first occurs. Customer must
notify Mentor Graphics in writing of any nonconformity within the warranty period. For the avoidance of doubt, this warranty
applies only to the initial shipment of Software under an Order and does not renew or reset, for example, with the delivery of (a)
Software updates or (b) authorization codes or alternate Software under a transaction involving Software re-mix. This warranty
shall not be valid if Products have been subject to misuse, unauthorized modification, improper installation or Customer is not in
compliance with this Agreement. MENTOR GRAPHICS© ENTIRE LIABILITY AND CUSTOMER©S EXCLUSIVE
REMEDY SHALL BE, AT MENTOR GRAPHICS© OPTION, EITHER (A) REFUND OF THE PRICE PAID UPON
RETURN OF THE PRODUCTS TO MENTOR GRAPHICS OR (B) MODIFICATION OR REPLACEMENT OF THE
PRODUCTS THAT DO NOT MEET THIS LIMITED WARRANTY. MENTOR GRAPHICS MAKES NO WARRANTIES
WITH RESPECT TO: (A) SERVICES; (B) PRODUCTS PROVIDED AT NO CHARGE; OR (C) BETA CODE; ALL OF
WHICH ARE PROVIDED ©AS IS.©
7.2. THE WARRANTIES SET FORTH IN THIS SECTION 7 ARE EXCLUSIVE. NEITHER MENTOR GRAPHICS NOR ITS
LICENSORS MAKE ANY OTHER WARRANTIES EXPRESS, IMPLIED OR STATUTORY, WITH RESPECT TO
PRODUCTS PROVIDED UNDER THIS AGREEMENT. MENTOR GRAPHICS AND ITS LICENSORS SPECIFICALLY
DISCLAIM ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NON-INFRINGEMENT OF INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY.
8. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY. TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED UNDER APPLICABLE LAW, IN NO EVENT SHALL
MENTOR GRAPHICS OR ITS LICENSORS BE LIABLE FOR INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING LOST PROFITS OR SAVINGS) WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER
LEGAL THEORY, EVEN IF MENTOR GRAPHICS OR ITS LICENSORS HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGES. IN NO EVENT SHALL MENTOR GRAPHICS© OR ITS LICENSORS© LIABILITY UNDER THIS
AGREEMENT EXCEED THE AMOUNT RECEIVED FROM CUSTOMER FOR THE HARDWARE, SOFTWARE LICENSE OR
SERVICE GIVING RISE TO THE CLAIM. IN THE CASE WHERE NO AMOUNT WAS PAID, MENTOR GRAPHICS AND ITS
LICENSORS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER. THE PROVISIONS OF THIS SECTION 8
SHALL SURVIVE THE TERMINATION OF THIS AGREEMENT.
9. THIRD PARTY CLAIMS.
9.1. Customer acknowledges that Mentor Graphics has no control over the testing of Customer©s products, or the specific
applications and use of Products. Mentor Graphics and its licensors shall not be liable for any claim or demand made against
Customer by any third party, except to the extent such claim is covered under Section 10.
9.2. In the event that a third party makes a claim against Mentor Graphics arising out of the use of Customer©s products, Mentor
Graphics will give Customer prompt notice of such claim. At Customer©s option and expense, Customer may take sole control
of the defense and any settlement of such claim. Customer WILL reimburse and hold harmless Mentor Graphics for any
LIABILITY, damages, settlement amounts, costs and expenses, including reasonable attorney©s fees, incurred by or awarded
against Mentor Graphics or its licensors in connection with such claims.
9.3. The provisions of this Section 9 shall survive any expiration or termination of this Agreement.
10. INFRINGEMENT.
10.1. Mentor Graphics will defend or settle, at its option and expense, any action brought against Customer in the United States,
Canada, Japan, or member state of the European Union which alleges that any standard, generally supported Product acquired
by Customer hereunder infringes a patent or copyright or misappropriates a trade secret in such jurisdiction. Mentor Graphics
will pay costs and damages finally awarded against Customer that are attributable to such action. Customer understands and
agrees that as conditions to Mentor Graphics© obligations under this section Customer must: (a) notify Mentor Graphics
promptly in writing of the action; (b) provide Mentor Graphics all reasonable information and assistance to settle or defend the
action; and (c) grant Mentor Graphics sole authority and control of the defense or settlement of the action.
10.2. If a claim is made under Subsection 10.1 Mentor Graphics may, at its option and expense: (a) replace or modify the Product so
that it becomes noninfringing; (b) procure for Customer the right to continue using the Product; or (c) require the return of the
Product and refund to Customer any purchase price or license fee paid, less a reasonable allowance for use.
10.3. Mentor Graphics has no liability to Customer if the action is based upon: (a) the combination of Software or hardware with any
product not furnished by Mentor Graphics; (b) the modification of the Product other than by Mentor Graphics; (c) the use of
other than a current unaltered release of Software; (d) the use of the Product as part of an infringing process; (e) a product that
Customer makes, uses, or sells; (f) any Beta Code or Product provided at no charge; (g) any software provided by Mentor
Graphics© licensors who do not provide such indemnification to Mentor Graphics© customers; (h) OSS, except to the extent that
the infringement is directly caused by Mentor Graphics© modifications to such OSS; or (i) infringement by Customer that is
deemed willful. In the case of (i), Customer shall reimburse Mentor Graphics for its reasonable attorney fees and other costs
related to the action.
10.4. THIS SECTION 10 IS SUBJECT TO SECTION 8 ABOVE AND STATES THE ENTIRE LIABILITY OF MENTOR
GRAPHICS AND ITS LICENSORS, AND CUSTOMER©S SOLE AND EXCLUSIVE REMEDY, FOR DEFENSE,
SETTLEMENT AND DAMAGES, WITH RESPECT TO ANY ALLEGED PATENT OR COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT
OR TRADE SECRET MISAPPROPRIATION BY ANY PRODUCT PROVIDED UNDER THIS AGREEMENT.
11. TERMINATION AND EFFECT OF TERMINATION.
11.1. If a Software license was provided for limited term use, such license will automatically terminate at the end of the authorized
term. Mentor Graphics may terminate this Agreement and/or any license granted under this Agreement immediately upon
written notice if Customer: (a) exceeds the scope of the license or otherwise fails to comply with the licensing or confidentiality
provisions of this Agreement, or (b) becomes insolvent, files a bankruptcy petition, institutes proceedings for liquidation or
winding up or enters into an agreement to assign its assets for the benefit of creditors. For any other material breach of any
provision of this Agreement, Mentor Graphics may terminate this Agreement and/or any license granted under this Agreement
upon 30 days written notice if Customer fails to cure the breach within the 30 day notice period. Termination of this Agreement
or any license granted hereunder will not affect Customer©s obligation to pay for Products shipped or licenses granted prior to
the termination, which amounts shall be payable immediately upon the date of termination.
11.2. Upon termination of this Agreement, the rights and obligations of the parties shall cease except as expressly set forth in this
Agreement. Upon termination of this Agreement and/or any license granted under this Agreement, Customer shall ensure that
all use of the affected Products ceases, and shall return hardware and either return to Mentor Graphics or destroy Software in
Customer©s possession, including all copies and documentation, and certify in writing to Mentor Graphics within ten business
days of the termination date that Customer no longer possesses any of the affected Products or copies of Software in any form.
12. EXPORT. The Products provided hereunder are subject to regulation by local laws and European Union (©E.U.©) and United States
(©U.S.©) government agencies, which prohibit export, re-export or diversion of certain products, information about the products, and
direct or indirect products thereof, to certain countries and certain persons. Customer agrees that it will not export or re-export Products
in any manner without first obtaining all necessary approval from appropriate local, E.U. and U.S. government agencies. If Customer wishes to disclose any information to Mentor Graphics that is subject to any E.U., U.S. or other applicable export restrictions, including
without limitation the U.S. International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) or special controls under the Export Administration Regulations (EAR), Customer will notify Mentor Graphics personnel, in advance of each instance of disclosure, that such information
is subject to such export restrictions.
13. U.S. GOVERNMENT LICENSE RIGHTS. Software was developed entirely at private expense. The parties agree that all Software is
commercial computer software within the meaning of the applicable acquisition regulations. Accordingly, pursuant to U.S. FAR 48
CFR 12.212 and DFAR 48 CFR 227.7202, use, duplication and disclosure of the Software by or for the U.S. government or a U.S.
government subcontractor is subject solely to the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, which shall supersede any
conflicting terms or conditions in any government order document, except for provisions which are contrary to applicable mandatory
federal laws.
14. THIRD PARTY BENEFICIARY. Mentor Graphics Corporation, Mentor Graphics (Ireland) Limited, Microsoft Corporation and
other licensors may be third party beneficiaries of this Agreement with the right to enforce the obligations set forth herein.
15. REVIEW OF LICENSE USAGE. Customer will monitor the access to and use of Software. With prior written notice and during
Customer©s normal business hours, Mentor Graphics may engage an internationally recognized accounting firm to review Customer©s
software monitoring system and records deemed relevant by the internationally recognized accounting firm to confirm Customer©s
compliance with the terms of this Agreement or U.S. or other local export laws. Such review may include FlexNet (or successor
product) report log files that Customer shall capture and provide at Mentor Graphics© request. Customer shall make records available in
electronic format and shall fully cooperate with data gathering to support the license review. Mentor Graphics shall bear the expense of
any such review unless a material non-compliance is revealed. Mentor Graphics shall treat as confidential information all information
gained as a result of any request or review and shall only use or disclose such information as required by law or to enforce its rights
under this Agreement. The provisions of this Section 15 shall survive the termination of this Agreement.
16. CONTROLLING LAW, JURISDICTION AND DISPUTE RESOLUTION. The owners of certain Mentor Graphics intellectual
property licensed under this Agreement are located in Ireland and the U.S. To promote consistency around the world, disputes shall be
resolved as follows: excluding conflict of laws rules, this Agreement shall be governed by and construed under the laws of the State of
Oregon, U.S., if Customer is located in North or South America, and the laws of Ireland if Customer is located outside of North or
South America or Japan, and the laws of Japan if Customer is located in Japan. All disputes arising out of or in relation to this
Agreement shall be submitted to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of Portland, Oregon when the laws of Oregon apply, or Dublin,
Ireland when the laws of Ireland apply, or the Tokyo District Court when the laws of Japan apply. Notwithstanding the foregoing, all
disputes in Asia (excluding Japan) arising out of or in relation to this Agreement shall be resolved by arbitration in Singapore before a
single arbitrator to be appointed by the chairman of the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (©SIAC©) to be conducted in the
English language, in accordance with the Arbitration Rules of the SIAC in effect at the time of the dispute, which rules are deemed to be
incorporated by reference in this section. Nothing in this section shall restrict Mentor Graphics© right to bring an action (including for
example a motion for injunctive relief) against Customer in the jurisdiction where Customer©s place of business is located. The United
Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods does not apply to this Agreement.
17. SEVERABILITY. If any provision of this Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be void, invalid, unenforceable or
illegal, such provision shall be severed from this Agreement and the remaining provisions will remain in full force and effect.
18. MISCELLANEOUS. This Agreement contains the parties© entire understanding relating to its subject matter and supersedes all prior
or contemporaneous agreements. Any translation of this Agreement is provided to comply with local legal requirements only. In the
event of a dispute between the English and any non-English versions, the English version of this Agreement shall govern to the extent
not prohibited by local law in the applicable jurisdiction. This Agreement may only be modified in writing, signed by an authorized
representative of each party. Waiver of terms or excuse of breach must be in writing and shall not constitute subsequent consent, waiver or excuse.
Rev. 170330, Part No. 270941


Copyright 1993-1997 Lucent Technologies
Copyright ActiveState Corporation  et al
Copyright 1992-2006 by Concept Engineering GmbH. All rights reserved. 
Copyright (c) 1998 Paul Duffin. 
Copyright 1994 Borland Intl
Copyright 1993-1994 Lockheed Missle & Space Co AI Center
Copyright 2000 Ajuba Solutions Contributions from Don Porter NIST
Copyright (c) 1995-1997 Roger E. Critchlow Jr 
Copyright Borland International 
Copyright 1995-2004 Regents of the University of Colorado
1999 Copyright URW Software
copyright as the man pages. Sep 14 1996
Copyright 1998-1999 Henry Spencer
Copyright 1996-2007 Julian Seward <jseward@bzip.org>
Copyright 1997 URW
Copyright 1999 Xilinx Corp. Xilinx begin
Copyright 1995-1996, 2008 IEEE
Copyright 1993 Mentor Graphics -- -- -- --
Copyright 1997-2006 Easy Software Products All Rights Reserved.
Copyright 2005, 2008 Niklas Sorensson
Copyright (c) 1998-2000 Ajuba Solutions. Contributions from Don Porter NIST 
Copyright 1990-1992, 1996-2000, 2007 Synopsys Inc
Copyright 2001-2003 Kevin B. Kenny
Copyright 2008-2013, 2015 Xilinx Inc
Copyright 1996-2007 Julian Seward
Copyright 2001-2002 Vincent Darley
Copyright (c) 1995 Dave Nebinger. 
Copyright 1995-2010 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler
Copyright 1997 American Mathematical Society
Copyright 1996-2001 ASCII Corp.(www-ptex@ascii.co.jp) based on dvipsk 
Copyright 1995 General Electric Co
Copyright 2004-2011 Oasys Design Systems Inc
Copyright 1999 Radical Eye Software 
Copyright 2001-2002, 2004 ActiveState Corp
Copyright 1984, 1989-1990, 1992-2003 Free Software Foundation Inc
Copyright 1994-1996 Synplicity Inc
Copyright 2000-2001, 2003 Synopsys
Copyright 1998 Mark Harrison
Copyright 1993-1998 Lucent Technologies Inc
Copyright (c) 2000 Andreas Kupries. All rights reserved. 
Copyright (c) 1993-94 Lockheed Missle & Space Company 
Copyright 1992 HELIOS Software GmbH
Copyright 1992 Regents of the University of California. --
Copyright 1982-1991 Mentor Graphics Corp
Copyright (c) 1999-2000 Andreas Kupries (a.kupries@westend.com) 
Copyright 1982-1983, 1986, 1988-1989 Regents of the University of California
Copyright 1997 by URW URW Software 
Copyright 1993-1997 Bell Labs Innovations for Lucent Technologies
Copyright 1990-1992 Synopsys Inc. -- --
Copyright 2000-2004 Martin C. Shepherd
Copyright 1999-2013 Verific Design Automation Inc
Copyright 1997 Cadence Design Systems Inc
Copyright 1993-2000 Sun Microsystems Inc
Copyright (c) 1998 Sun Microsystems Inc. puts 
Copyright 1996-2007 Julian R Seward
Copyright 1995-2010 Mark Adler
Copyright (C) 1999 America Online Inc. 
Copyright 1995, 2001 Apple Computer Inc
Copyright 1993-1994 Exemplar Logic Inc
Copyright 2001-2002 Donal K. Fellows
Copyright 1998-2000 Scriptics Corp. Contributions from Don Porter NIST
Copyright 2001-2002 David Gravereaux
Copyright 1992-1993, 1995-1996 Jens-Uwe Mager Helios Software GmbH Not derived from
Copyright 1997-2000 Ajuba Solutions
Copyright 2002 Radical Eye Software Title cudd.dvi Pages 
Copyright 1991 the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Copyright 2000 Ajuba Solutions HLP
  2001 Tcl Core Team 
Copyright (c) 1996 Lucent Technologies and Jim Ingham 
Copyright 1995-2010 Jean-loup Gailly detect
Copyright 1998-2000 Scriptics Corp
Copyright 1994-1996 Synplicity Inc. --
Copyright 1994-1996 Synplicity Inc. -- --
Copyright 1998 Scritpics Corp
Copyright 1987-1994 The Regents of the University of California
Copyright 1995-2010 Jean-loup Gailly
Copyright (c) 2001 ActiveState Tool Corp. 














pigz version 2.4
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
Copyright 2007-2017 Mark Adler
This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied
  warranty.  In no event will the author be held liable for any damages
  arising from the use of this software.

  Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose,
  including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it
  freely, subject to the following restrictions:

  1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not
     claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software
     in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be
     appreciated but is not required.
  2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be
     misrepresented as being the original software.
  3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.

//////
For code in the zopfli directory, the following applies:
Copyright 2011 Google Inc.
The text of the Apache License Version 2, a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, as applicable to the software listed above.













python version 3.8.3
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>


History and License
History of the software
Python was created in the early 1990s by Guido van Rossum at Stichting Mathematisch Centrum (CWI, see https://www.cwi.nl/) in the Netherlands as a successor of a language called ABC. Guido remains Python©s principal author, although it includes many contributions from others.

In 1995, Guido continued his work on Python at the Corporation for National Research Initiatives (CNRI, see https://www.cnri.reston.va.us/) in Reston, Virginia where he released several versions of the software.

In May 2000, Guido and the Python core development team moved to BeOpen.com to form the BeOpen PythonLabs team. In October of the same year, the PythonLabs team moved to Digital Creations (now Zope Corporation; see https://www.zope.org/). In 2001, the Python Software Foundation (PSF, see https://www.python.org/psf/) was formed, a non-profit organization created specifically to own Python-related Intellectual Property. Zope Corporation is a sponsoring member of the PSF.

All Python releases are Open Source (see https://opensource.org/ for the Open Source Definition). Historically, most, but not all, Python releases have also been GPL-compatible; the table below summarizes the various releases.

Release

Derived from

Year

Owner

GPL compatible©

0.9.0 thru 1.2

n/a

1991-1995

CWI

yes

1.3 thru 1.5.2

1.2

1995-1999

CNRI

yes

1.6

1.5.2

2000

CNRI

no

2.0

1.6

2000

BeOpen.com

no

1.6.1

1.6

2001

CNRI

no

2.1

2.0+1.6.1

2001

PSF

no

2.0.1

2.0+1.6.1

2001

PSF

yes

2.1.1

2.1+2.0.1

2001

PSF

yes

2.1.2

2.1.1

2002

PSF

yes

2.1.3

2.1.2

2002

PSF

yes

2.2 and above

2.1.1

2001-now

PSF

yes

Note GPL-compatible doesn©t mean that we©re distributing Python under the GPL. All Python licenses, unlike the GPL, let you distribute a modified version without making your changes open source. The GPL-compatible licenses make it possible to combine Python with other software that is released under the GPL; the others don©t.
Thanks to the many outside volunteers who have worked under Guido©s direction to make these releases possible.

Terms and conditions for accessing or otherwise using Python
PSF LICENSE AGREEMENT FOR PYTHON 3.8.5
1. This LICENSE AGREEMENT is between the Python Software Foundation ("PSF"), and
   the Individual or Organization ("Licensee") accessing and otherwise using Python
   3.8.5 software in source or binary form and its associated documentation.

2. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License Agreement, PSF hereby
   grants Licensee a nonexclusive, royalty-free, world-wide license to reproduce,
   analyze, test, perform and/or display publicly, prepare derivative works,
   distribute, and otherwise use Python 3.8.5 alone or in any derivative
   version, provided, however, that PSF's License Agreement and PSF's notice of
   copyright, i.e., "Copyright © 2001-2020 Python Software Foundation; All Rights
   Reserved" are retained in Python 3.8.5 alone or in any derivative version
   prepared by Licensee.

3. In the event Licensee prepares a derivative work that is based on or
   incorporates Python 3.8.5 or any part thereof, and wants to make the
   derivative work available to others as provided herein, then Licensee hereby
   agrees to include in any such work a brief summary of the changes made to Python
   3.8.5.

4. PSF is making Python 3.8.5 available to Licensee on an "AS IS" basis.
   PSF MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED.  BY WAY OF
   EXAMPLE, BUT NOT LIMITATION, PSF MAKES NO AND DISCLAIMS ANY REPRESENTATION OR
   WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR THAT THE
   USE OF PYTHON 3.8.5 WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY THIRD PARTY RIGHTS.

5. PSF SHALL NOT BE LIABLE TO LICENSEE OR ANY OTHER USERS OF PYTHON 3.8.5
   FOR ANY INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR LOSS AS A RESULT OF
   MODIFYING, DISTRIBUTING, OR OTHERWISE USING PYTHON 3.8.5, OR ANY DERIVATIVE
   THEREOF, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY THEREOF.

6. This License Agreement will automatically terminate upon a material breach of
   its terms and conditions.

7. Nothing in this License Agreement shall be deemed to create any relationship
   of agency, partnership, or joint venture between PSF and Licensee.  This License
   Agreement does not grant permission to use PSF trademarks or trade name in a
   trademark sense to endorse or promote products or services of Licensee, or any
   third party.

8. By copying, installing or otherwise using Python 3.8.5, Licensee agrees
   to be bound by the terms and conditions of this License Agreement.
BEOPEN.COM LICENSE AGREEMENT FOR PYTHON 2.0
BEOPEN PYTHON OPEN SOURCE LICENSE AGREEMENT VERSION 1

1. This LICENSE AGREEMENT is between BeOpen.com ("BeOpen"), having an office at
   160 Saratoga Avenue, Santa Clara, CA 95051, and the Individual or Organization
   ("Licensee") accessing and otherwise using this software in source or binary
   form and its associated documentation ("the Software").

2. Subject to the terms and conditions of this BeOpen Python License Agreement,
   BeOpen hereby grants Licensee a non-exclusive, royalty-free, world-wide license
   to reproduce, analyze, test, perform and/or display publicly, prepare derivative
   works, distribute, and otherwise use the Software alone or in any derivative
   version, provided, however, that the BeOpen Python License is retained in the
   Software, alone or in any derivative version prepared by Licensee.

3. BeOpen is making the Software available to Licensee on an "AS IS" basis.
   BEOPEN MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED.  BY WAY OF
   EXAMPLE, BUT NOT LIMITATION, BEOPEN MAKES NO AND DISCLAIMS ANY REPRESENTATION OR
   WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR THAT THE
   USE OF THE SOFTWARE WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY THIRD PARTY RIGHTS.

4. BEOPEN SHALL NOT BE LIABLE TO LICENSEE OR ANY OTHER USERS OF THE SOFTWARE FOR
   ANY INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR LOSS AS A RESULT OF USING,
   MODIFYING OR DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE, OR ANY DERIVATIVE THEREOF, EVEN IF
   ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY THEREOF.

5. This License Agreement will automatically terminate upon a material breach of
   its terms and conditions.

6. This License Agreement shall be governed by and interpreted in all respects
   by the law of the State of California, excluding conflict of law provisions.
   Nothing in this License Agreement shall be deemed to create any relationship of
   agency, partnership, or joint venture between BeOpen and Licensee.  This License
   Agreement does not grant permission to use BeOpen trademarks or trade names in a
   trademark sense to endorse or promote products or services of Licensee, or any
   third party.  As an exception, the "BeOpen Python" logos available at
   http://www.pythonlabs.com/logos.html may be used according to the permissions
   granted on that web page.

7. By copying, installing or otherwise using the software, Licensee agrees to be
   bound by the terms and conditions of this License Agreement.
CNRI LICENSE AGREEMENT FOR PYTHON 1.6.1
1. This LICENSE AGREEMENT is between the Corporation for National Research
   Initiatives, having an office at 1895 Preston White Drive, Reston, VA 20191
   ("CNRI"), and the Individual or Organization ("Licensee") accessing and
   otherwise using Python 1.6.1 software in source or binary form and its
   associated documentation.

2. Subject to the terms and conditions of this License Agreement, CNRI hereby
   grants Licensee a nonexclusive, royalty-free, world-wide license to reproduce,
   analyze, test, perform and/or display publicly, prepare derivative works,
   distribute, and otherwise use Python 1.6.1 alone or in any derivative version,
   provided, however, that CNRI's License Agreement and CNRI's notice of copyright,
   i.e., "Copyright © 1995-2001 Corporation for National Research Initiatives; All
   Rights Reserved" are retained in Python 1.6.1 alone or in any derivative version
   prepared by Licensee.  Alternately, in lieu of CNRI's License Agreement,
   Licensee may substitute the following text (omitting the quotes): "Python 1.6.1
   is made available subject to the terms and conditions in CNRI's License
   Agreement.  This Agreement together with Python 1.6.1 may be located on the
   Internet using the following unique, persistent identifier (known as a handle):
   1895.22/1013.  This Agreement may also be obtained from a proxy server on the
   Internet using the following URL: http://hdl.handle.net/1895.22/1013."

3. In the event Licensee prepares a derivative work that is based on or
   incorporates Python 1.6.1 or any part thereof, and wants to make the derivative
   work available to others as provided herein, then Licensee hereby agrees to
   include in any such work a brief summary of the changes made to Python 1.6.1.

4. CNRI is making Python 1.6.1 available to Licensee on an "AS IS" basis.  CNRI
   MAKES NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED.  BY WAY OF EXAMPLE,
   BUT NOT LIMITATION, CNRI MAKES NO AND DISCLAIMS ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY
   OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR THAT THE USE OF
   PYTHON 1.6.1 WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY THIRD PARTY RIGHTS.

5. CNRI SHALL NOT BE LIABLE TO LICENSEE OR ANY OTHER USERS OF PYTHON 1.6.1 FOR
   ANY INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR LOSS AS A RESULT OF
   MODIFYING, DISTRIBUTING, OR OTHERWISE USING PYTHON 1.6.1, OR ANY DERIVATIVE
   THEREOF, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY THEREOF.

6. This License Agreement will automatically terminate upon a material breach of
   its terms and conditions.

7. This License Agreement shall be governed by the federal intellectual property
   law of the United States, including without limitation the federal copyright
   law, and, to the extent such U.S. federal law does not apply, by the law of the
   Commonwealth of Virginia, excluding Virginia's conflict of law provisions.
   Notwithstanding the foregoing, with regard to derivative works based on Python
   1.6.1 that incorporate non-separable material that was previously distributed
   under the GNU General Public License (GPL), the law of the Commonwealth of
   Virginia shall govern this License Agreement only as to issues arising under or
   with respect to Paragraphs 4, 5, and 7 of this License Agreement.  Nothing in
   this License Agreement shall be deemed to create any relationship of agency,
   partnership, or joint venture between CNRI and Licensee.  This License Agreement
   does not grant permission to use CNRI trademarks or trade name in a trademark
   sense to endorse or promote products or services of Licensee, or any third
   party.

8. By clicking on the "ACCEPT" button where indicated, or by copying, installing
   or otherwise using Python 1.6.1, Licensee agrees to be bound by the terms and
   conditions of this License Agreement.
CWI LICENSE AGREEMENT FOR PYTHON 0.9.0 THROUGH 1.2
Copyright © 1991 - 1995, Stichting Mathematisch Centrum Amsterdam, The
Netherlands.  All rights reserved.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that
the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that copyright
notice and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and that
the name of Stichting Mathematisch Centrum or CWI not be used in advertising or
publicity pertaining to distribution of the software without specific, written
prior permission.

STICHTING MATHEMATISCH CENTRUM DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS
SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN NO
EVENT SHALL STICHTING MATHEMATISCH CENTRUM BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT
OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE,
DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS
ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS
SOFTWARE.
Licenses and Acknowledgements for Incorporated Software
This section is an incomplete, but growing list of licenses and acknowledgements for third-party software incorporated in the Python distribution.

Mersenne Twister
The _random module includes code based on a download from http://www.math.sci.hiroshima-u.ac.jp/~m-mat/MT/MT2002/emt19937ar.html. The following are the verbatim comments from the original code:

A C-program for MT19937, with initialization improved 2002/1/26.
Coded by Takuji Nishimura and Makoto Matsumoto.

Before using, initialize the state by using init_genrand(seed)
or init_by_array(init_key, key_length).

Copyright (C) 1997 - 2002, Makoto Matsumoto and Takuji Nishimura,
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

 3. The names of its contributors may not be used to endorse or promote
    products derived from this software without specific prior written
    permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR
CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL,
EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR
PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.


Any feedback is very welcome.
http://www.math.sci.hiroshima-u.ac.jp/~m-mat/MT/emt.html
email: m-mat @ math.sci.hiroshima-u.ac.jp (remove space)
Sockets
The socket module uses the functions, getaddrinfo(), and getnameinfo(), which are coded in separate source files from the WIDE Project, http://www.wide.ad.jp/.

Copyright (C) 1995, 1996, 1997, and 1998 WIDE Project.
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
3. Neither the name of the project nor the names of its contributors
   may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
   without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE PROJECT AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE PROJECT OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.
Asynchronous socket services
The asynchat and asyncore modules contain the following notice:

Copyright 1996 by Sam Rushing

                        All Rights Reserved

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and
its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby
granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all
copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission
notice appear in supporting documentation, and that the name of Sam
Rushing not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to
distribution of the software without specific, written prior
permission.

SAM RUSHING DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE,
INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS, IN
NO EVENT SHALL SAM RUSHING BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS
OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
Cookie management
The http.cookies module contains the following notice:

Copyright 2000 by Timothy O'Malley <timo@alum.mit.edu>

               All Rights Reserved

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software
and its documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby
granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all
copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission
notice appear in supporting documentation, and that the name of
Timothy O'Malley  not be used in advertising or publicity
pertaining to distribution of the software without specific, written
prior permission.

Timothy O'Malley DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS
SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY
AND FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL Timothy O'Malley BE LIABLE FOR
ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS
ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR
PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
Execution tracing
The trace module contains the following notice:

portions copyright 2001, Autonomous Zones Industries, Inc., all rights...
err...  reserved and offered to the public under the terms of the
Python 2.2 license.
Author: Zooko O'Whielacronx
http://zooko.com/
mailto:zooko@zooko.com

Copyright 2000, Mojam Media, Inc., all rights reserved.
Author: Skip Montanaro

Copyright 1999, Bioreason, Inc., all rights reserved.
Author: Andrew Dalke

Copyright 1995-1997, Automatrix, Inc., all rights reserved.
Author: Skip Montanaro

Copyright 1991-1995, Stichting Mathematisch Centrum, all rights reserved.


Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this Python software and
its associated documentation for any purpose without fee is hereby
granted, provided that the above copyright notice appears in all copies,
and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation, and that the name of neither Automatrix,
Bioreason or Mojam Media be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to
distribution of the software without specific, written prior permission.
UUencode and UUdecode functions
The uu module contains the following notice:

Copyright 1994 by Lance Ellinghouse
Cathedral City, California Republic, United States of America.
                       All Rights Reserved
Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted,
provided that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that
both that copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
supporting documentation, and that the name of Lance Ellinghouse
not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution
of the software without specific, written prior permission.
LANCE ELLINGHOUSE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO
THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND
FITNESS, IN NO EVENT SHALL LANCE ELLINGHOUSE CENTRUM BE LIABLE
FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT
OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

Modified by Jack Jansen, CWI, July 1995:
- Use binascii module to do the actual line-by-line conversion
  between ascii and binary. This results in a 1000-fold speedup. The C
  version is still 5 times faster, though.
- Arguments more compliant with Python standard
XML Remote Procedure Calls
The xmlrpc.client module contains the following notice:

    The XML-RPC client interface is

Copyright (c) 1999-2002 by Secret Labs AB
Copyright (c) 1999-2002 by Fredrik Lundh

By obtaining, using, and/or copying this software and/or its
associated documentation, you agree that you have read, understood,
and will comply with the following terms and conditions:

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and
its associated documentation for any purpose and without fee is
hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice appears in
all copies, and that both that copyright notice and this permission
notice appear in supporting documentation, and that the name of
Secret Labs AB or the author not be used in advertising or publicity
pertaining to distribution of the software without specific, written
prior permission.

SECRET LABS AB AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES WITH REGARD
TO THIS SOFTWARE, INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANT-
ABILITY AND FITNESS.  IN NO EVENT SHALL SECRET LABS AB OR THE AUTHOR
BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY
DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS,
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS
ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE
OF THIS SOFTWARE.
test_epoll
The test_epoll module contains the following notice:

Copyright (c) 2001-2006 Twisted Matrix Laboratories.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION
OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION
WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
Select kqueue
The select module contains the following notice for the kqueue interface:

Copyright (c) 2000 Doug White, 2006 James Knight, 2007 Christian Heimes
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:
1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.
SipHash24
The file Python/pyhash.c contains Marek Majkowski© implementation of Dan Bernstein©s SipHash24 algorithm. It contains the following note:

<MIT License>
Copyright (c) 2013  Marek Majkowski <marek@popcount.org>

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
</MIT License>

Original location:
   https://github.com/majek/csiphash/

Solution inspired by code from:
   Samuel Neves (supercop/crypto_auth/siphash24/little)
   djb (supercop/crypto_auth/siphash24/little2)
   Jean-Philippe Aumasson (https://131002.net/siphash/siphash24.c)
strtod and dtoa
The file Python/dtoa.c, which supplies C functions dtoa and strtod for conversion of C doubles to and from strings, is derived from the file of the same name by David M. Gay, currently available from http://www.netlib.org/fp/. The original file, as retrieved on March 16, 2009, contains the following copyright and licensing notice:

/****************************************************************
 *
 * The author of this software is David M. Gay.
 *
 * Copyright (c) 1991, 2000, 2001 by Lucent Technologies.
 *
 * Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
 * purpose without fee is hereby granted, provided that this entire notice
 * is included in all copies of any software which is or includes a copy
 * or modification of this software and in all copies of the supporting
 * documentation for such software.
 *
 * THIS SOFTWARE IS BEING PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
 * WARRANTY.  IN PARTICULAR, NEITHER THE AUTHOR NOR LUCENT MAKES ANY
 * REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY OF ANY KIND CONCERNING THE MERCHANTABILITY
 * OF THIS SOFTWARE OR ITS FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
 *
 ***************************************************************/
OpenSSL
The modules hashlib, posix, ssl, crypt use the OpenSSL library for added performance if made available by the operating system. Additionally, the Windows and Mac OS X installers for Python may include a copy of the OpenSSL libraries, so we include a copy of the OpenSSL license here:

 LICENSE ISSUES
 ==============

 The OpenSSL toolkit stays under a dual license, i.e. both the conditions of
 the OpenSSL License and the original SSLeay license apply to the toolkit.
 See below for the actual license texts. Actually both licenses are BSD-style
 Open Source licenses. In case of any license issues related to OpenSSL
 please contact openssl-core@openssl.org.

 OpenSSL License
 ---------------

   /* ====================================================================
    * Copyright (c) 1998-2008 The OpenSSL Project.  All rights reserved.
    *
    * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
    * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
    * are met:
    *
    * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
    *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
    *
    * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
    *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in
    *    the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
    *    distribution.
    *
    * 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this
    *    software must display the following acknowledgment:
    *    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
    *    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit. (http://www.openssl.org/)"
    *
    * 4. The names "OpenSSL Toolkit" and "OpenSSL Project" must not be used to
    *    endorse or promote products derived from this software without
    *    prior written permission. For written permission, please contact
    *    openssl-core@openssl.org.
    *
    * 5. Products derived from this software may not be called "OpenSSL"
    *    nor may "OpenSSL" appear in their names without prior written
    *    permission of the OpenSSL Project.
    *
    * 6. Redistributions of any form whatsoever must retain the following
    *    acknowledgment:
    *    "This product includes software developed by the OpenSSL Project
    *    for use in the OpenSSL Toolkit (http://www.openssl.org/)"
    *
    * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE OpenSSL PROJECT ``AS IS'' AND ANY
    * EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
    * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
    * PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE OpenSSL PROJECT OR
    * ITS CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
    * SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
    * NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
    * LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
    * HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
    * STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
    * ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
    * OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
    * ====================================================================
    *
    * This product includes cryptographic software written by Eric Young
    * (eay@cryptsoft.com).  This product includes software written by Tim
    * Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com).
    *
    */

Original SSLeay License
-----------------------

   /* Copyright (C) 1995-1998 Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)
    * All rights reserved.
    *
    * This package is an SSL implementation written
    * by Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com).
    * The implementation was written so as to conform with Netscapes SSL.
    *
    * This library is free for commercial and non-commercial use as long as
    * the following conditions are aheared to.  The following conditions
    * apply to all code found in this distribution, be it the RC4, RSA,
    * lhash, DES, etc., code; not just the SSL code.  The SSL documentation
    * included with this distribution is covered by the same copyright terms
    * except that the holder is Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com).
    *
    * Copyright remains Eric Young's, and as such any Copyright notices in
    * the code are not to be removed.
    * If this package is used in a product, Eric Young should be given attribution
    * as the author of the parts of the library used.
    * This can be in the form of a textual message at program startup or
    * in documentation (online or textual) provided with the package.
    *
    * Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
    * modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
    * are met:
    * 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the copyright
    *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
    * 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
    *    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
    *    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
    * 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
    *    must display the following acknowledgement:
    *    "This product includes cryptographic software written by
    *     Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)"
    *    The word 'cryptographic' can be left out if the rouines from the library
    *    being used are not cryptographic related :-).
    * 4. If you include any Windows specific code (or a derivative thereof) from
    *    the apps directory (application code) you must include an acknowledgement:
    *    "This product includes software written by Tim Hudson (tjh@cryptsoft.com)"
    *
    * THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY ERIC YOUNG ``AS IS'' AND
    * ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
    * IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
    * ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
    * FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
    * DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
    * OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
    * HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
    * LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
    * OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
    * SUCH DAMAGE.
    *
    * The licence and distribution terms for any publically available version or
    * derivative of this code cannot be changed.  i.e. this code cannot simply be
    * copied and put under another distribution licence
    * [including the GNU Public Licence.]
    */
expat
The pyexpat extension is built using an included copy of the expat sources unless the build is configured --with-system-expat:

Copyright (c) 1998, 1999, 2000 Thai Open Source Software Center Ltd
                               and Clark Cooper

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
"Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
libffi
The _ctypes extension is built using an included copy of the libffi sources unless the build is configured --with-system-libffi:

Copyright (c) 1996-2008  Red Hat, Inc and others.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
``Software''), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY,
WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
zlib
The zlib extension is built using an included copy of the zlib sources if the zlib version found on the system is too old to be used for the build:

Copyright (C) 1995-2011 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler

This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied
warranty.  In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages
arising from the use of this software.

Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose,
including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it
freely, subject to the following restrictions:

1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not
   claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software
   in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be
   appreciated but is not required.

2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be
   misrepresented as being the original software.

3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.

Jean-loup Gailly        Mark Adler
jloup@gzip.org          madler@alumni.caltech.edu
cfuhash
The implementation of the hash table used by the tracemalloc is based on the cfuhash project:

Copyright (c) 2005 Don Owens
All rights reserved.

This code is released under the BSD license:

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

  * Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

  * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
    copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
    disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
    with the distribution.

  * Neither the name of the author nor the names of its
    contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived
    from this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR
SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT,
STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE)
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED
OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
libmpdec
The _decimal module is built using an included copy of the libmpdec library unless the build is configured --with-system-libmpdec:

Copyright (c) 2008-2016 Stefan Krah. All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
   notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
   documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGE.
W3C C14N test suite
The C14N 2.0 test suite in the test package (Lib/test/xmltestdata/c14n-20/) was retrieved from the W3C website at https://www.w3.org/TR/xml-c14n2-testcases/ and is distributed under the 3-clause BSD license:

Copyright (c) 2013 W3C(R) (MIT, ERCIM, Keio, Beihang), All Rights Reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

Redistributions of works must retain the original copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the original copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

Neither the name of the W3C nor the names of its contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this work without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS ©AS IS© AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

Python and this documentation is:

Copyright © 2001-2020 Python Software Foundation. All rights reserved.

Copyright © 2000 BeOpen.com. All rights reserved.

Copyright © 1995-2000 Corporation for National Research Initiatives. All rights reserved.

Copyright © 1991-1995 Stichting Mathematisch Centrum. All rights reserved.


>>>>> wsgiref
# Copyright (C) 2002 Lars Gustaebel <lars@gustaebel.de>
# All rights reserved.
#
# Permission  is  hereby granted,  free  of charge,  to  any person
# obtaining a  copy of  this software  and associated documentation
# files  (the  "Software"),  to   deal  in  the  Software   without
# restriction,  including  without limitation  the  rights to  use,
# copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
# copies  of  the  Software,  and to  permit  persons  to  whom the
# Software  is  furnished  to  do  so,  subject  to  the  following
# conditions:
#
# The above copyright  notice and this  permission notice shall  be
# included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
#
# THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS  IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY  KIND,
# EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING  BUT NOT LIMITED TO  THE WARRANTIES
# OF  MERCHANTABILITY,  FITNESS   FOR  A  PARTICULAR   PURPOSE  AND
# NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN  NO  EVENT SHALL  THE  AUTHORS  OR COPYRIGHT
# HOLDERS  BE LIABLE  FOR ANY  CLAIM, DAMAGES  OR OTHER  LIABILITY,
# WHETHER  IN AN  ACTION OF  CONTRACT, TORT  OR OTHERWISE,  ARISING
# FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
# OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
#


Copyright 2004 ActiveState
Copyright 2004-2007 Kevin B. Kenny
Copyright 1999-2000 Marc-Andre Lemburg mailto mal@lemburg.com
Copyright 2003-2005 Peter Astrand <astrand@lysator.liu.se>
Copyright 1995-2017 Mark Adler
Copyright 2003-2013 Python Software Foundation import copy import operator
Copyright 1991-1994 The Regents of the University of California
Copyright 2004-2005 Gerhard Hring <gh@ghaering.de>
Copyright 2001-2006 Python Software Foundation Author Keith Dart Contact email-sig@python.org
Copyright 1991-1995 Stichting Mathematisch Centrum Amsterdam The Netherlands
Copyright 2001-2020 Python Software Foundation
Copyright 1996-2014 Anthony Green Red Hat Inc and others
Copyright 2001-2003 David Gravereaux
Copyright 1994-1996 Expert Interface Technologies
Copyright (C) 2008 Keith Vetter 
Copyright 1994 Lance Ellinghouse Cathedral City California Republic United States of America
Copyright 2005 Martin
Copyright 1990-1995 Stichting Mathematisch Centrum
Copyright 2001-2007 Python Software Foundation Author Ben Gertzfield Barry Warsaw Contact email-sig@python.org
Copyright 2006-2009 Google Inc
Copyright 2000 Mojam Media Inc
Copyright 2007-2008 Daniel A. Steffen <das@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright (c) 2003-2008 Patrick Thoyts 
Copyright 1994-1998 Sun Microsystems Inc
Copyright (c) 2006 by Pat Thoyts 
Copyright 1997, 1999-2009 Fredrik Lundh
Copyright 2001-2006 Twisted Matrix Laboratories
Copyright 1999-2000 Jeffrey Hobbs
Copyright 1998 Mark Harrison
Copyright 2004, 2008-2009 Pat Thoyts <patthoyts@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright 1024, 2048, 3072, 3526, 8192 The OpenSSL Authors. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2002-2006 Python Software Foundation Contact email-sig@python.org email package unit tests for
Copyright 2001 Autonomous Zones Industries Inc
Copyright 1995-2001 Corp for National Research Initiatives
Copyright 1993-1999 Ioi Kim Lam
Copyright Unspecified
Copyright 2007-2012 Michael Foord & the mock team
Copyright (c) 1998-2019 The OpenSSL Project. All rights reserved. 
Copyright 1995-1998 Eric Young (eay@cryptsoft.com)
Copyright 2009-2010 Donal K. Fellows
Copyright 2004-2005 Elemental Security Inc
Copyright 2001-2002 Python Software Foundation csv package unit tests
Copyright 2005-2006 Martin von Lwis
Copyright 2004-2007 Gerhard H
Copyright 2004 Joe English
Copyright 2000 Timothy O'Malley <timo@alum.mit.edu>
Copyright 1998 Scritpics Corp
Copyright 2006-2007 Georg Brandl
This program is linked with and uses Microsoft Distributable Code copyrighted by Microsoft Corporation. The Microsoft Distributable Code is embedded in each .exe .dll and .pyd file as a result of running the code through a linker. 
Copyright 1987-1994 Adobe Systems Inc
Copyright 2000 Ajuba Solutions Contributions from Don Porter NIST
Copyright 1998-2000 Ajuba Solutions
Copyright 2001-2007 Python Software Foundation Author Barry Warsaw Thomas Wouters Anthony Baxter Contact email-sig@python.org
Copyright 2005 Ian Bicking and contributors written for Paste
Copyright 2000 Guido van Rossum
Copyright 1996 Sam Rushing
Copyright 2013 W3C
Copyright 1981, 2000-2001, 2003-2005, 2008-2009 IBM Corp
Copyright 1996-2010 Julian R Seward
Copyright  Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.
Copyright 2012-2013 Larry Hastings
Copyright YEAR ORGANIZATION FIRST AUTHOR <EMAIL@ADDRESS>
Copyright 2001-2007 Python Software Foundation Author Anthony Baxter Contact email-sig@python.org
Copyright 1991-1995 Stichting Mathematisch Centrum Amsterdam
Copyright 2008 Christian Heimes <christian@cheimes.de>
Copyright 2007-2012 Michael Foord & the mock team E-mail fuzzyman AT voidspace DOT org DOT uk
Copyright 2000-2010 eGenix.com Software GmbH mailto info@egenix.com
Copyright 2002 ActiveState Corp
Copyright 2001 Python Software Foundation Barry Warsaw <barry@python.org>
Copyright 1999-2003 Steve Purcell
Copyright (c) 2017 Ashok P. Nadkarni ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
Copyright Copyright  2001 by ActiveState Corporation  et al
Copyright 2000-2001 Tix Project Group
Copyright 1995-1997 Automatrix Inc
Copyright 2008 Armin Ronacher
Copyright 2001-2010 Python Software Foundation Contact email-sig@python.org email package unit tests
Copyright 2000 BeOpen.com
Copyright 1995-2017 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler
Copyright 2004-2006 Python Software Foundation Authors Baxter Wouters and Warsaw Contact email-sig@python.org
Copyright 2002-2003 Python Software Foundation. Written by Greg Ward <gward@python.net>
Copyright 2007 ActiveState Software Inc
Copyright 2006-2008 R Oudkerk
Copyright 2000 Bastian Kleineidam
Copyright 1999-2006 Gregory P. Ward
Copyright (c) 2010-2015 by Harald Oehlmann. 
Copyright 1998 The Open Group
Copyright 2001-2002 Python Software Foundation and were written by Barry Warsaw
Copyright 2009 Brian Quinlan
Copyright 2002 Lars Gustaebel <lars@gustaebel.de>
Copyright 2000 Luke Kenneth Casson Leighton <lkcl@samba.org>
Copyright 1994 X Consortium
Copyright Copyright  2001-2016 Python Software Foundation. Copyright  2000 BeOpen.com. Copyright  1995-2001 CNRI. Copyright  1991-1995 SMC.
Copyright 1998-2000 Scriptics Corp
Copyright 2006-2010 Gregor Lingl email glingl@aon.at
Copyright 1998 D. J. Hagberg Jr. and Global Atmospherics Inc
Copyright 2008 Armin Ronacher. license Python License
Copyright 1997-2002 Secret Labs AB
Copyright 1995-1996 Virginia Polytechnic Institute & State University Blacksburg Virginia USA and Fred L. Drake Jr. Reston Virginia USA
Copyright 2005-2010 Gregory P. Smith (greg@krypto.org)
Copyright 1999 Bioreason Inc
Copyright 2002-2007 Python Software Foundation Contact email-sig@python.org


sevenzip version 4.65
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
7-Zip Copyright (C) 1999-2009 Igor Pavlov.

  Licenses for files are:

    1) CPP/7zip/Compress/Rar files:  GNU LGPL + unRAR restriction
    2) All other files:  GNU LGPL

  The GNU LGPL + unRAR restriction means that you must follow both 
  GNU LGPL rules and unRAR restriction rules.


  GNU LGPL information
  --------------------

    This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
    modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
    License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
    version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

    This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
    Lesser General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
    License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
    Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA


  unRAR restriction
  -----------------

    The decompression engine for RAR archives was developed using source 
    code of unRAR program.
    All copyrights to original unRAR code are owned by Alexander Roshal.

    The license for original unRAR code has the following restriction:

    The unRAR sources cannot be used to re-create the RAR compression algorithm, 
    which is proprietary. Distribution of modified unRAR sources in separate form 
    or as a part of other software is permitted, provided that it is clearly
    stated in the documentation and source comments that the code may
    not be used to develop a RAR (WinRAR) compatible archiver.


  --
  Igor Pavlov



Copyright 1991, 1999 Free Software Foundation Inc
Copyright 1999-2009 Igor Pavlov define MY
Copyright 1999-2009 Igor Pavlov
Copyright 2004 Sergiy Niskorodov












tcl version 8.5.14
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
This software is copyrighted by the Regents of the University of
California, Sun Microsystems, Inc., and other parties.  The following
terms apply to all files associated with the software unless explicitly
disclaimed in individual files.

The authors hereby grant permission to use, copy, modify, distribute,
and license this software and its documentation for any purpose, provided
that existing copyright notices are retained in all copies and that this
notice is included verbatim in any distributions. No written agreement,
license, or royalty fee is required for any of the authorized uses.
Modifications to this software may be copyrighted by their authors
and need not follow the licensing terms described here, provided that
the new terms are clearly indicated on the first page of each file where
they apply.

IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR DISTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY
FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, ITS DOCUMENTATION, OR ANY
DERIVATIVES THEREOF, EVEN IF THE AUTHORS HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

THE AUTHORS AND DISTRIBUTORS SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIM ANY WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT.  THIS SOFTWARE
IS PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, AND THE AUTHORS AND DISTRIBUTORS HAVE
NO OBLIGATION TO PROVIDE MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES, ENHANCEMENTS, OR
MODIFICATIONS.

GOVERNMENT USE: If you are acquiring this software on behalf of the
U.S. government, the Government shall have only "Restricted Rights"
in the software and related documentation as defined in the Federal
Acquisition Regulations (FARs) in Clause 52.227.19 (c) (2).  If you
are acquiring the software on behalf of the Department of Defense, the
software shall be classified as "Commercial Computer Software" and the
Government shall have only "Restricted Rights" as defined in Clause
252.227-7013 (b) (3) of DFARs.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
authors grant the U.S. Government and others acting in its behalf
permission to use and distribute the software in accordance with the
terms specified in this license.



Copyright ActiveState Corporation  et al
Copyright 1999-2000 Jeffrey Hobbs
Copyright 2004 Joe English
Copyright 1998-2000 Scriptics Corp
Copyright 1994-1998 Sun Microsystems Inc
Copyright 2002 ActiveState Corp
Copyright 1998-2000 Ajuba Solutions
Copyright 2007 ActiveState Software Inc
Copyright 2007 Daniel A. Steffen <das@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright 1992-1994 The Regents of the University of California
Copyright 2004 Pat Thoyts <patthoyts@users.sourceforge.net>

 













tcllib version 1.11.1
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
License Terms (apply to all files associated with the software unless explicitly disclaimed in individual files)
---------------

This software is copyrighted by Ajuba Solutions and other parties.
The following terms apply to all files associated with the software unless
explicitly disclaimed in individual files.

The authors hereby grant permission to use, copy, modify, distribute,
and license this software and its documentation for any purpose, provided
that existing copyright notices are retained in all copies and that this
notice is included verbatim in any distributions. No written agreement,
license, or royalty fee is required for any of the authorized uses.
Modifications to this software may be copyrighted by their authors
and need not follow the licensing terms described here, provided that
the new terms are clearly indicated on the first page of each file where
they apply.

IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR DISTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY
FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, ITS DOCUMENTATION, OR ANY
DERIVATIVES THEREOF, EVEN IF THE AUTHORS HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

THE AUTHORS AND DISTRIBUTORS SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIM ANY WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT.  THIS SOFTWARE
IS PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, AND THE AUTHORS AND DISTRIBUTORS HAVE
NO OBLIGATION TO PROVIDE MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES, ENHANCEMENTS, OR
MODIFICATIONS.

GOVERNMENT USE: If you are acquiring this software on behalf of the
U.S. government, the Government shall have only "Restricted Rights"
in the software and related documentation as defined in the Federal 
Acquisition Regulations (FARs) in Clause 52.227.19 (c) (2).  If you
are acquiring the software on behalf of the Department of Defense, the
software shall be classified as "Commercial Computer Software" and the
Government shall have only "Restricted Rights" as defined in Clause
252.227-7013 (c) (1) of DFARs.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
authors grant the U.S. Government and others acting in its behalf
permission to use and distribute the software in accordance with the
terms specified in this license. 

Copyright notice that applies to FILE: ./modules/math/mvlinreg.tcl
--------------- 
Copyright 2007 Eric Kemp-Benedict
Released under the BSD license under any terms that allow it to be compatible with tcllib

Copyright notice that apply to the following FILEs: 
./modules/sha1/sha256.c 
./modules/sha1/sha256.h
--------------- 
Copyright (c) 2001, 2002 Allan Saddi <allan@saddi.com>
All rights reserved.
 
Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

Copyright notice that applies to the following FILE: ./modules/md5/md5.c
--------------- 
Copyright (C) 1990, RSA Data Security, Inc. All rights reserved.  
                                                                   
License to copy and use this software is granted provided that it is identified as the "RSA Data Security, Inc. MD5 Message-
Digest Algorithm" in all material mentioning or referencing this  software or this function.                                       

License is also granted to make and use derivative works provided that such works are identified as "derived from the RSA Data Security, Inc. MD5 Message-Digest Algorithm" in all material mentioning or referencing the derived work.              
 
RSA Data Security, Inc. makes no representations concerning either the merchantability of this software or the suitability of this software for any particular purpose.  It is provided "as is" without express or implied warranty of any kind.              

These notices must be retained in any copies of any part of this documentation and/or software. 

Copyright notice that applies to the following FILE: ./modules/amazon-s3/S3.tcl
--------------- 
Copyright (c) 2006,2008 Darren New. All Rights Reserved.

NO WARRANTIES OF ANY TYPE ARE PROVIDED.
COPYING OR USE INDEMNIFIES THE AUTHOR IN ALL WAYS.

This software is licensed under essentially the same terms as Tcl. See license terms.

Copyright notice that applies to the following FILE: ./modules/amazon-s3/xsxp.tcl
--------------- 
Copyright (c) 2006 Darren New.
All Rights Reserved.
NO WARRANTIES OF ANY TYPE ARE PROVIDED.
COPYING OR USE INDEMNIFIES THE AUTHOR IN ALL WAYS.
See the license terms.

Copyright notice that applies to the following FILE: ./modules/imap4/imap4.tcl
--------------- 
Copyright (C) 2004 Salvatore Sanfilippo <antirez@invece.org>.

All rights reserved.
 
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, provided that the above copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in all copies of the Software and that both the above copyright notice(s) and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT OF THIRD PARTY RIGHTS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR HOLDERS INCLUDED IN THIS NOTICE BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, OR ANY SPECIAL  INDIRECT OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

Except as contained in this notice, the name of a copyright holder shall not be used in advertising or otherwise to promote the sale, use or other dealings in this Software without prior written authorization of the copyright holder.

Copyright notice that applies to the following FILE: ./modules/md4/md4.h
--------------- 
Copyright (C) 1991-2, RSA Data Security, Inc. Created 1991. All rights reserved.
License to copy and use this software is granted provided that it is identified as the "RSA Data Security, Inc. MD4 Message-Digest Algorithm" in all material mentioning or referencing this software
or this function. License is also granted to make and use derivative works provided that such works are identified as "derived from the RSA Data Security, Inc. MD4 Message-Digest Algorithm" in all material mentioning or referencing the derived work. RSA Data Security, Inc. makes no representations concerning either the merchantability of this software or the suitability of this software for any particular purpose. It is provided "as is"
 without express or implied warranty of any kind. These notices must be retained in any copies of any part of this documentation and/or software.

Copyright notice that applies to the following FILE: ./modules/md4/md4.c
--------------- 
Copyright (C) 1990-2, RSA Data Security, Inc. All rights reserved.
License to copy and use this software is granted provided that it is identified as the "RSA Data Security, Inc. MD4 Message-Digest Algorithm" in all material mentioning or referencing this software or this function. License is also granted to make and use derivative works provided that such works are identified as "derived from the RSA Data Security, Inc. MD4 Message-Digest Algorithm" in all material mentioning or referencing the derived work.  RSA Data Security, Inc. makes no representations concerning either the merchantability of this software or the suitability of this software for any particular purpose. It is provided "as is"  without express or implied warranty of any kind.
These notices must be retained in any copies of any part of this documentation and/or software.

Copyright notice that applies to the following FILE: ./examples/mime/mbot/mbox.tcl
---------------
(c) 1999 Marshall T. Rose
Hold harmless the author, and any lawful use is allowed.











tcltk version 8.4
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
This software is copyrighted by the Regents of the University of
California, Sun Microsystems, Inc., Scriptics Corporation, ActiveState
Corporation and other parties.  The following terms apply to all files
associated with the software unless explicitly disclaimed in
individual files.

The authors hereby grant permission to use, copy, modify, distribute,
and license this software and its documentation for any purpose, provided
that existing copyright notices are retained in all copies and that this
notice is included verbatim in any distributions. No written agreement,
license, or royalty fee is required for any of the authorized uses.
Modifications to this software may be copyrighted by their authors
and need not follow the licensing terms described here, provided that
the new terms are clearly indicated on the first page of each file where
they apply.

IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR DISTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY
FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, ITS DOCUMENTATION, OR ANY
DERIVATIVES THEREOF, EVEN IF THE AUTHORS HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

THE AUTHORS AND DISTRIBUTORS SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIM ANY WARRANTIES,
INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, AND NON-INFRINGEMENT.  THIS SOFTWARE
IS PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, AND THE AUTHORS AND DISTRIBUTORS HAVE
NO OBLIGATION TO PROVIDE MAINTENANCE, SUPPORT, UPDATES, ENHANCEMENTS, OR
MODIFICATIONS.

GOVERNMENT USE: If you are acquiring this software on behalf of the
U.S. government, the Government shall have only "Restricted Rights"
in the software and related documentation as defined in the Federal 
Acquisition Regulations (FARs) in Clause 52.227.19 (c) (2).  If you
are acquiring the software on behalf of the Department of Defense, the
software shall be classified as "Commercial Computer Software" and the
Government shall have only "Restricted Rights" as defined in Clause
252.227-7013 (c) (1) of DFARs.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
authors grant the U.S. Government and others acting in its behalf
permission to use and distribute the software in accordance with the
terms specified in this license. 



Copyright 1993-1997 Lucent Technologies
Copyright 1998 Mark Harrison
Copyright 1993-1998 Lucent Technologies Inc
Copyright (c) 2000 Andreas Kupries. All rights reserved. 
Copyright (c) 1998 Paul Duffin. 
Copyright 1993-1994 Lockheed Missle & Space Co AI Center
Copyright 2000 Ajuba Solutions Contributions from Don Porter NIST
Copyright (c) 1993-94 Lockheed Missle & Space Company 
Copyright 1992 HELIOS Software GmbH
Copyright (c) 1995-1997 Roger E. Critchlow Jr 
Copyright (c) 1999-2000 Andreas Kupries (a.kupries@westend.com) 
Copyright 1982-1983, 1986, 1988-1989 Regents of the University of California
Copyright 1993-1997 Bell Labs Innovations for Lucent Technologies
copyright as the man pages. Sep 14 1996
Copyright 1998-1999 Henry Spencer
Copyright 1993-2000 Sun Microsystems Inc
Copyright (c) 1998 Sun Microsystems Inc. puts 
Copyright (C) 1999 America Online Inc. 
Copyright 1995, 2001 Apple Computer Inc
Copyright 2001-2002 Donal K. Fellows
Copyright (c) 1998-2000 Ajuba Solutions. Contributions from Don Porter NIST 
Copyright 1998-2000 Scriptics Corp. Contributions from Don Porter NIST
Copyright 2001-2002 David Gravereaux
Copyright 1992-1993, 1995-1996 Jens-Uwe Mager Helios Software GmbH Not derived from
Copyright 1997-2000 Ajuba Solutions
Copyright 1992 Free Software Foundation Inc
Copyright 2001-2003 Kevin B. Kenny
Copyright 2000 Ajuba Solutions HLP
  2001 Tcl Core Team 
Copyright 2001-2002 Vincent Darley
Copyright (c) 1996 Lucent Technologies and Jim Ingham 
Copyright (c) 1995 Dave Nebinger. 
Copyright 1998-2000 Scriptics Corp
Copyright 1998 Scritpics Corp
Copyright 1987-1994 The Regents of the University of California
Copyright 1995 General Electric Co
Copyright 2001-2002, 2004 ActiveState Corp
Copyright (c) 2001 ActiveState Tool Corp. 















tdom-tdom version 0.8.2
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
The text of the Mozilla Public License, Version 1.1, a copy of which is made available below in this document, was originally presented here, or as applicable, applies to the above-listed file(s).
Copyright (C) 1998, 1999  Jochen C. Loewer (loewerj@hotmail.com)
Copyright 1998-2000 Thai Open Source Software Center Ltd and Clark Cooper
Copyright 1998 D. Richard Hipp
Copyright 1999, 2001 Jochen Loewer (loewerj@hotmail.com)
  2000-2002 Metrowerks Corporation. All rights reserved. 
Copyright 1998-2000 Ajuba Solutions
Copyright 1999-2000 Jochen C. Loewer (loewerj@hotmail.com)
Copyright 2001-2006 Expat maintainers
Copyright 1990-1994 The Regents of the University of California
Copyright 1998-2000 Zveno Pty Ltd
Copyright 2002 ActiveState SRL
Copyright 1998-2001 Jochen Loewer
Copyright 1998-2000 Thai Open Source Software Center Ltd
Copyright (c) 1999 - 2000 Jochen C. Loewer (loewerj@hotmail.com) ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Copyright (c) 1999 2000 Jochen Loewer (loewerj@hotmail.com) et al. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Copyright 2002-2005, 2007 Rolf Ade (rolf@pointsman.de)
Copyright 2001-2002 David Gravereaux
Copyright (c) 1999 Jochen C. Loewer (loewerj@hotmail.com) ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Copyright (c) 1998 Steve Ball Zveno Pty Ltd 
Copyright 1993 Paul Raines (raines@bohr.physics.upenn.edu)
Copyright 2000-2002 Zoran Vasiljevic
Copyright 1999-2001 Jochen Loewer (loewerj@hotmail.com) ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Copyright 2003 Pat Thoyts
Copyright (C) 1998-1999 Netscape 
Copyright 2005 Pat Thoyts <patthoyts@users.sourceforge.net>
Copyright 1999-2007 Rolf Ade
Copyright 1999-2001 Jochen Loewer (loewerj@hotmail.com) -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Copyright 1992, 2003 Free Software Foundation Inc
Copyright 2003 Patrick Thoyts
Copyright 1998-1999 Scriptics Corp
Copyright 2001-2005 ActiveState Corp
Copyright 2000 Clark Cooper
Copyright 1994-1996 Sun Microsystems Inc












treelite version 0.32
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>


The text of the Apache License, Version 2.0, a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, or as applicable, 
applies to the above-listed file(s).

# Acknowledgments

This page acknowledges those who provided great help in building the initial
version of treelite:

* Treelite builds upon Philip's earlier work at **Paul G. Allen School of
  Computer Science and Engineering, University of Washington at Seattle**, which was performed under the
  guidance of **Carlos Guestrin** and **Arvind Krishnamurthy**.
* **Tianqi Chen** (member of DMLC) offered many great ideas for the conception
  of the project. He also provided feedback pertaining to API design.
* **Mu Li** (member of DMLC) provided advice and resources to develop treelite
  into a full-fledged open source project.
* [More to be added]


Copyright (c) 2017 by Contributors file annotator.cc author Philip Cho 
Copyright 2017 Contributors file pred
Copyright 2017 by Contributors file tree.
Copyright (c) 2017 by Contributors file filesystem.
Copyright (c) 2017 by Contributors file annotator.
Copyright 2017 by Contributors file builder.cc brief model builder frontend 
Copyright by 2018 Contributors file spsc
Copyright (c) 2017 by Contributors file predictor.
Copyright 2017 Contributors file
Copyright 2017 by Contributors file compiler.cc brief Registry of compilers 
Copyright (c) 2017 by Contributors file logging.cc author Philip Cho 
Copyright 2017 by Contributors file param.
Copyright 2017 by Contributors file cli
Copyright 2017 Contributors file common
Copyright (c) 2017 by Contributors file optable.cc author Philip Cho 
Copyright 2017 by Contributors file lightgbm.cc brief Frontend for lightgbm model 
Copyright (c) 2017 by Contributors file predictor.cc author Philip Cho 
Copyright 2017 by Contributors file protobuf.cc brief Frontend for protobuf model 
Copyright 2017 by Contributors file model.cc brief Placeholder to register ModelParam with the DMLC parameter registry. 
Copyright 2017 by Contributors file omp.
Copyright 2017 by Contributors file frontend.
Copyright 2017 by Contributors file xgboost.cc brief Frontend for xgboost model 
Copyright 2017 by Contributors file logging.
Copyright by 2018 Contributors file thread
Copyright 2017 by Contributors file base.
Copyright 2017 Contributors file data
Copyright 2017 by Contributors file compiler.


Visual C++ Redistributable for Visual Studio version 14.29.30133.0
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>


MICROSOFT SOFTWARE LICENSE TERMS
MICROSOFT VISUAL STUDIO ENTERPRISE 2019, VISUAL STUDIO PROFESSIONAL 2019, 
VISUAL STUDIO TEST PROFESSIONAL 2019 AND TRIAL EDITION
These license terms are an agreement between you and Microsoft Corporation (or based on where you live, one of its affiliates). They apply to the software named above. The terms also apply to any Microsoft services and updates for the software, except to the extent those have different terms. 
BY USING THE SOFTWARE, YOU ACCEPT THESE TERMS. IF YOU DO NOT ACCEPT THEM, DO NOT USE THE SOFTWARE. INSTEAD, RETURN IT TO THE RETAILER FOR A REFUND OR CREDIT. If you cannot obtain a refund there, contact Microsoft about Microsoft?s refund policies. See www.microsoft.com/worldwide. In the United States and Canada, call (800) MICROSOFT or see aka.ms/nareturns. 
	
TRIAL EDITION USE RIGHTS. If you have not acquired a valid full-use license, the software is a trial edition, and this Section applies to your use of the trial edition. 
A. GENERAL. You may use any number of copies of the trial edition on your devices. You may only use the trial edition for internal evaluation purposes, and only during the trial period. You may not distribute or deploy any applications you make with the trial edition to a production environment. You may run load tests of up to 250 virtual users during the trial period. 
B. TRIAL PERIOD AND CONVERSION. The trial period lasts for 30 days after you install the trial edition, plus any permitted extension period. After the expiration of the trial period, the trial edition will stop running. You may extend the trial period an additional 90 days if you sign in to the software. You may not be able to access data used with the trial edition after it stops running. You may convert your trial rights at any time to the full-use rights described below by acquiring a valid full-use license. 
C. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY. THE TRIAL EDITION IS LICENSED ?AS-IS?.  YOU BEAR THE RISK OF USING IT. MICROSOFT GIVES NO EXPRESS WARRANTIES, GUARANTEES OR CONDITIONS. TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED UNDER YOUR LOCAL LAWS, MICROSOFT EXCLUDES THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT.
FOR AUSTRALIA ? YOU HAVE STATUTORY GUARANTEES UNDER THE AUSTRALIAN CONSUMER LAW AND NOTHING IN THESE TERMS IS INTENDED TO AFFECT THOSE RIGHTS.
D. SUPPORT. Because the trial edition is ?as is?, we may not provide support services for it.
E. LIMITATIONS ON DAMAGES. YOU CAN RECOVER FROM MICROSOFT AND ITS SUPPLIERS ONLY DIRECT DAMAGES UP TO U.S. $5.00. YOU CANNOT RECOVER ANY OTHER DAMAGES, INCLUDING CONSEQUENTIAL, LOST PROFITS, SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES.
This limitation applies to (a) anything related to the trial version, services, content (including code) on third party Internet sites, or third party programs; and (b) claims for breach of contract, breach of warranty, guarantee or condition, strict liability, negligence, or other tort to the extent permitted by applicable law.
It also applies even if Microsoft knew or should have known about the possibility of the damages. The above limitation or exclusion may not apply to you because your country may not allow the exclusion or limitation of incidental, consequential or other damages.



FULL-USE LICENSE TERMS FOR THE SOFTWARE: When you acquire a valid license and either enter a product key or sign in to the software, the terms below apply. You may not share your product key or access credentials. 
1. OVERVIEW.
a. Software. The software includes development tools, applications, and documentation.
b. License Model. The software is licensed on a per user basis.
2. USE RIGHTS.
a. General. One user may use copies of the software on your devices to develop and test applications. This includes using copies of the software on your own internal servers that remain fully dedicated to your own use. You may not, however, separate the components of the software (except as otherwise stated in this agreement) and run those in a production environment, or on third party devices, or for any purpose other than developing and testing your applications. Running the software on Microsoft Azure may require separate online usage fees.
b. Workloads. These license terms apply to your use of the workloads made available to you within the software, except to the extent a workload or a workload component comes with different license terms and support policies.
c. Backup copy. You may make one backup copy of the software, for reinstalling the software.
d. Online Services in the Software. Some features of the software make use of online services to provide you with information about updates to the software or extensions, or to enable you to retrieve content, collaborate with others, or otherwise supplement your development experience. As used throughout this agreement, the term ?software? includes these online service features.
e. Demo Use. The use rights permitted above include using the software to demonstrate your applications.
3. TERMS FOR SPECIFIC COMPONENTS. 
a. Utilities. The software contains items on the Utilities List at https://aka.ms/vs/16/utilities. You may copy and install those items onto your devices to debug and deploy your applications and databases you developed with the software. The Utilities are designed for temporary use.   Microsoft may not be able to patch or update Utilities separately from the rest of the software.  Some Utilities by their nature may make it possible for others to access the devices on which the Utilities are installed. You should delete all Utilities you have installed after you finish debugging or deploying your applications and databases. Microsoft is not responsible for any third party use or access of devices, or of the applications or databases on devices, on which Utilities have been installed.
b. Build Devices and Visual Studio Build Tools.  You may copy and install files from the software or from Visual Studio Build Tools onto your build devices, including physical devices and virtual machines or containers on those machines, whether on-premises or remote machines that are owned by you, hosted on Microsoft Azure for you, or dedicated solely to your use (collectively, ?Build Devices?).  You and others in your organization may use these files on your Build Devices solely to compile, build, and verify applications developed by using the software, or run quality or performance tests of those applications as part of the build process.  
c. Font Components. While the software is running, you may use its fonts to display and print content. You may only: (i) embed fonts in content as permitted by the embedding restrictions in the fonts; and (ii) temporarily download them to a printer or other output device to help print content.
d. Licenses for Other Components.
* Microsoft Platforms. The software may include components from Microsoft Windows, Microsoft Windows Server, Microsoft SQL Server, Microsoft Exchange, Microsoft Office, or Microsoft SharePoint. These components are governed by separate agreements and their own product support policies, as described in the Microsoft ?Licenses? folder accompanying the software, except that, if separate license terms for those components are included in the associated installation directly, those license terms control.
* Third Party Components. The software may include third party components with separate legal notices or governed by other agreements, as may be described in the ThirdPartyNotices file(s) accompanying the software. 
e. Package Managers. The software includes package managers, like NuGet, that give you the option to download other Microsoft and third party software packages to use with your applications. Those packages are under their own licenses, and not these license terms. Microsoft does not distribute, license or provide any warranties for any of the third party packages.
4. DISTRIBUTABLE CODE. The software contains code that you are permitted to distribute in applications you develop as described in this Section. For purposes of this Section 4, the term ?distribution? also means deployment of your applications for third parties to access over the Internet.
a. Right to Use and Distribute. The code and text files listed below are ?Distributable Code?.
* Distributable List. You may copy and distribute the object code form of code listed on the Distributable List located at https://aka.ms/vs/16/redistribution.
* Sample Code, Templates, and Styles. You may copy, modify, and distribute the source and object code form of code marked as ?sample?, ?template?, ?simple styles?, and ?sketch styles?. 
* Third Party Distribution. You may permit distributors of your applications to copy and distribute the Distributable Code as part of those applications.
b. Distribution Requirements. For any Distributable Code you distribute, you must:
* add significant primary functionality to it in your applications;
* require distributors and external end users to agree to terms that protect the Distributable Code at least as much as this agreement; and
* indemnify, defend, and hold harmless Microsoft from any claims, including attorneys? fees, related to the distribution or use of your applications, except to the extent that any claim is based solely on the Distributable Code.
c. Distribution Restrictions. You may not:
* use Microsoft?s trademarks in your applications? names or in a way that suggests your applications come from or are endorsed by Microsoft; or
* modify or distribute the source code of any Distributable Code so that any part of it becomes subject to an Excluded License. An Excluded License is one that requires, as a condition of use, modification or distribution of code, that (i) it be disclosed or distributed in source code form; or (ii) others have the right to modify it.
5. DEVELOPING EXTENSIONS.
a. Limits on Extensions. You may not develop or enable others to develop extensions for the software (or any other component of the Visual Studio family of products) which circumvent the technical limitations implemented in the software. If Microsoft technically limits or disables extensibility for the software, you may not extend the software by, among other things, loading or injecting into the software any non-Microsoft add-ins, macros, or packages; modifying the software registry settings; or adding features or functionality equivalent to that found in the Visual Studio family of products.
b. No Degrading the Software. If you develop an extension for the software (or any other component of the Visual Studio family of products), you must test the installation, uninstallation, and operation of your extension to ensure that such processes do not disable any features or adversely affect the functionality of the software (or such component) or of any previous version or edition of thereof.
6. DATA. 
a. Data Collection. The software may collect information about you and your use of the software, and send that to Microsoft. Microsoft may use this information to provide services and improve our products and services. You may opt out of many of these scenarios, but not all, as described in the software documentation. There are also some features in the software that may enable you and Microsoft to collect data from users of your applications. If you use these features, you must comply with applicable law, including providing appropriate notices to users of your applications together with Microsoft?s privacy statement. Our privacy statement is located at https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=824704. You can learn more about data collection and its use from the software documentation and our privacy statement. Your use of the software operates as your consent to these practices.
b. Processing of Personal Data. To the extent Microsoft is a processor or subprocessor of personal data in connection with the software, Microsoft makes the commitments in the European Union General Data Protection Regulation Terms of the Online Services Terms to all customers effective May 25, 2018, at https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/legal/gdpr.
7.	SCOPE OF LICENSE. The software is licensed, not sold. These license terms only give you some rights to use the software. Microsoft reserves all other rights. Unless applicable law gives you more rights despite this limitation, you may use the software only as expressly permitted in these license terms. In doing so, you must comply with any technical limitations in the software that only allow you to use it in certain ways. In addition, you may not:
* work around any technical limitations in the software;
* reverse engineer, decompile or disassemble the software, or otherwise attempt to derive the source code for the software, except and to the extent required by third party licensing terms governing use of certain open source components that may be included in the software;
* remove, minimize, block, or modify any notices of Microsoft or its suppliers in the software;
* use the software in any way that is against the law;
* share, publish, rent, or lease the software; or 
* provide the software as a stand-alone offering or combine it with any of your applications for others to use.
8. NOT FOR RESALE SOFTWARE. You may not sell the software if it is marked as ?NFR? or ?Not for Resale?.
9. PREVIOUS VERSIONS OR OTHER EDITIONS. These license terms do not supersede your right to use validly licensed previous versions or other editions of the software. You may use the software and those previous versions or other editions of the software concurrently.
10. PROOF OF LICENSE. If you acquired the software on a disc or other media, your proof of license is the Microsoft certificate of authenticity label, the accompanying product key, and your receipt. If you purchased an online copy of the software, your proof of license is the Microsoft product key you received with your purchase and your receipt and/or being able to access the software service through your Microsoft account. To identify genuine Microsoft software, see www.howtotell.com.
11. TRANSFER TO A THIRD PARTY. If you are a valid licensee of the software, you may transfer it and this agreement directly to another party. Before the transfer, that party must agree that these license terms apply to the transfer and use of the software. The transfer must include the software, this agreement, the genuine Microsoft product key, and (if applicable) the Proof of License label. The transferor must uninstall all copies of the software after transferring it from the device. The transferor may not retain any copies of the genuine Microsoft product key to be transferred, and may only retain copies of the software if otherwise licensed to do so. If you have acquired a non-perpetual license to use the software or if the software is marked Not for Resale you may not transfer the software or the software license agreement to another party.
12. EXPORT RESTRICTIONS. You must comply with all domestic and international export laws and regulations that apply to the software, which include restrictions on destinations, end users, and end use. For further information on export restrictions, visit www.microsoft.com/exporting.
13. SUPPORT. Microsoft provides support for the software as described at https://support.microsoft.com.
14. ENTIRE AGREEMENT. These license terms (including the warranty below), and the terms for supplements, updates, Internet-based services, and support services, are the entire agreement for the software and support services.
15. APPLICABLE LAW. If you acquired the software in the United States, Washington State law applies to interpretation of and claims for breach of this agreement, and the laws of the state where you live apply to all other claims. If you acquire the software in any other country, its laws apply.
16. CONSUMER RIGHTS; REGIONAL VARIATIONS. These license terms describe certain legal rights. You may have other rights, including consumer rights, under the laws of your state or country. You may also have rights with respect to the party from which you acquired the software. This agreement does not change those other rights if the laws of your state or country do not permit it to do so. For example, if you acquired the software in one of the below regions, or if mandatory country law applies, then the following provisions apply to you:
a) Australia. References to ?Limited Warranty? are references to the express warranty provided by Microsoft. This warranty is given in addition to other rights and remedies you may have under law, including your rights and remedies in accordance with the statutory guarantees in the Australian Consumer Law.
In this section, ?goods? refers to the software for which Microsoft provides the express warranty. Our goods come with guarantees that cannot be excluded under the Australian Consumer Law. You are entitled to a replacement or refund for a major failure and compensation for any other reasonably foreseeable loss or damage. You are also entitled to have the goods repaired or replaced if the goods fail to be of acceptable quality and the failure does not amount to a major failure.
b) Canada. You may stop receiving updates on your device by turning off Internet access.  If and when you re-connect to the Internet, the software will resume checking for and installing updates.
c) Germany and Austria.
(i)	Warranty. The properly licensed software will perform substantially as described in any Microsoft materials that accompany the software. However, Microsoft gives no contractual guarantee in relation to the software.
(ii)	Limitation of Liability. In case of intentional conduct, gross negligence, claims based on the Product Liability Act, as well as, in the case of death or personal or physical injury, Microsoft is liable according to the statutory law.
Subject to the preceding sentence (ii), Microsoft will only be liable for slight negligence if Microsoft is in breach of such material contractual obligations, the fulfillment of which facilitate the due performance of this agreement, the breach of which would endanger the purpose of this agreement and the compliance with which a party may constantly trust in (so-called "cardinal obligations"). In other cases of slight negligence, Microsoft will not be liable for slight negligence.


*************************************************************************
LIMITED WARRANTY
Microsoft warrants that properly licensed software will perform substantially as described in any Microsoft materials that accompany the software. This limited warranty does not cover problems that you cause, that arise when you fail to follow instructions, or that are caused by events beyond Microsoft?s reasonable control. The limited warranty starts when the first user acquires the software, and lasts for one year. Any supplements, updates, or replacement software that you may receive from Microsoft during that year are also covered, but only for the remainder of that one-year period or for 30 days, whichever is longer. Transferring the software will not extend the limited warranty.
Microsoft gives no other express warranties, guarantees, or conditions. Microsoft excludes all implied warranties and conditions, including those of merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, and non-infringement. If your local law does not allow the exclusion of implied warranties, then any implied warranties, guarantees, or conditions last only during the term of the limited warranty and are limited as much as your local law allows. If your local law requires a longer limited warranty term, despite this agreement, then that longer term will apply, but you can recover only the remedies this agreement allows.
If Microsoft breaches its limited warranty, it will, at its election, either: (i) repair or replace the software at no charge, or (ii) accept return of the software (or at its election the Microsoft branded device on which the software was preinstalled) for a refund of the amount paid, if any. These are your only remedies for breach of warranty. This limited warranty gives you specific legal rights, and you may also have other rights which vary from state to state or country to country.
Except for any repair, replacement, or refund Microsoft may provide, you may not recover under this limited warranty, under any other part of this agreement, or under any theory, any damages or other remedy, including lost profits or direct, consequential, special, indirect, or incidental damages. The damage exclusions and remedy limitations in this agreement apply even if repair, replacement or a refund does not fully compensate you for any losses, if Microsoft knew or should have known about the possibility of the damages, or if the remedy fails of its essential purpose. Some states and countries do not allow the exclusion or limitation of incidental, consequential, or other damages, so those limitations or exclusions may not apply to you. If your local law allows you to recover damages from Microsoft even though this agreement does not, you cannot recover more than you paid for the software (or up to $50 USD if you acquired the software for no charge).

Warranty Procedures
For service or a refund, you must provide a copy of your proof of purchase and comply with Microsoft?s return policies, which might require you to uninstall the software and return it to Microsoft or return the software with the entire Microsoft branded device on which the software is installed; the certificate of authenticity label including the product key (if provided with your device) must remain affixed.
1. United States and Canada. For limited warranty service or information about how to obtain a refund for software acquired in the United States or Canada, contact Microsoft via telephone at (800) MICROSOFT; via mail at Microsoft Customer Service and Support, One Microsoft Way, Redmond, WA 98052-6399; or visit (aka.ms/nareturns).
2. Europe, Middle East, and Africa. If you acquired the software in Europe, the Middle East, or Africa, Microsoft Ireland Operations Limited makes the limited warranty. To make a claim under the limited warranty, you must contact either Microsoft Ireland Operations Limited, Customer Care Centre, Atrium Building Block B, Carmanhall Road, Sandyford Industrial Estate, Dublin 18, Ireland, or the Microsoft affiliate serving your country (aka.ms/msoffices).
3. Australia. If you acquired the software in Australia, contact Microsoft to make a claim at 13 20 58; or Microsoft Pty Ltd, 1 Epping Road, North Ryde NSW 2113 Australia.
4. Other countries. If you acquired the software in another country, contact the Microsoft affiliate serving your country (aka.ms/msoffices).

EULAID: VS_2019_ENU.1033
xerces-c version 3.2.3
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>


The text of the Apache License, Version 2.0, a copy of which is made available below in Part Four of this document, was originally presented here, or as applicable, applies to the above-listed file(s).

>>>> GPL with exception
# libtool (GNU libtool) 2.4.6
# Provide generalized library-building support services.
# Written by Gordon Matzigkeit <gord@gnu.ai.mit.edu>, 1996

# Copyright (C) 1996-2015 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
# This is free software; see the source for copying conditions.  There is NO
# warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

# GNU Libtool is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
# it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
# the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
# (at your option) any later version.
#
# As a special exception to the GNU General Public License,
# if you distribute this file as part of a program or library that
# is built using GNU Libtool, you may include this file under the
# same distribution terms that you use for the rest of that program.
#
# GNU Libtool is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
# WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
# MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
# General Public License for more details.
#
# You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
# along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

>>>> Doc/html
JavaScript code in this file.

Copyright (C) 1997-2019 by Dimitri van Heesch

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of version 2 of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.

@licend  The above is the entire license notice
for the JavaScript code in this file
*/

>>>> GPL v3.0 with Exception
# This file is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
# under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
# the Free Software Foundation; either version 3 of the License, or
# (at your option) any later version.
#
# This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
# WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
# MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
# General Public License for more details.
#
# You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
# along with this program; if not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
#
# As a special exception to the GNU General Public License, if you
# distribute this file as part of a program that contains a
# configuration script generated by Autoconf, you may include it under
# the same distribution terms that you use for the rest of that
# program.  This Exception is an additional permission under section 7
# of the GNU General Public License, version 3 ("GPLv3").
#
# Originally written by Per Bothner; maintained since 2000 by Ben Elliston.



Copyright 1997-2019 Dimitri van Heesch
Copyright 1996-2015 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Gordon Matzigkeit
Copyright  2015 Open Microscopy Environment University of Dundee Written by Roger Leigh <rleigh@codelibre.net> 
Copyright (c) 2018 Steven Benner 
Copyright 2014-2016 University of Dundee 
Copyright (c) 2007 Ariel Flesler - aflesler 
Copyright 1994 X Consortium
Copyright 1986 International Organization for Standardization
Copyright 1999 IBM Corp
Copyright Copyright  1999-2018 Apache Software Foundation  subject to licensing terms
Copyright 2004-2015 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Gary V. Vaughan
Copyright (C) 1996-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Originally written by Fran cois Pinard <pinard@iro.umontreal.ca> 
Copyright 2004-2015 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Scott James Remnant
Copyright 1999-2017 The Apache Software Foundation
Copyright 1992-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc
Copyright (C) 1999-2018 Free Software Foundation Inc. Written by Tom Tromey <tromey@cygnus.com>. 


xgboost version 0.82
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>


/*!
 * Copyright 2018 XGBoost contributors
 * \brief span class based on ISO++20 span
 *
 * About NOLINTs in this file:
 *
 *   If we want Span to work with std interface, like range for loop, the
 *   naming must be consistant with std, not XGBoost. Also, the interface also
 *   conflicts with XGBoost coding style, specifically, the use of `explicit'
 *   keyword.
 *
 *
 * Some of the code is copied from Guidelines Support Library, here is the
 * license:
 *
 * Copyright (c) 2015 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.
 *
 * This code is licensed under the MIT License (MIT).
 *
 * THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
 * IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
 * FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
 * AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
 * LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
 * OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
 * THE SOFTWARE.
 */

>>>> Main License  

                               Apache License
                           Version 2.0, January 2004
                        http://www.apache.org/licenses/

   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

   1. Definitions.

      "License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction,
      and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

      "Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by
      the copyright owner that is granting the License.

      "Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all
      other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common
      control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition,
      "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the
      direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or
      otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the
      outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.

      "You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity
      exercising permissions granted by this License.

      "Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,
      including but not limited to software source code, documentation
      source, and configuration files.

      "Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical
      transformation or translation of a Source form, including but
      not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation,
      and conversions to other media types.

      "Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or
      Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a
      copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work
      (an example is provided in the Appendix below).

      "Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object
      form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the
      editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications
      represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes
      of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain
      separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of,
      the Work and Derivative Works thereof.

      "Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including
      the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions
      to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally
      submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner
      or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of
      the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted"
      means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent
      to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to
      communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems,
      and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the
      Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but
      excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise
      designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."

      "Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity
      on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and
      subsequently incorporated within the Work.

   2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of,
      publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the
      Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.

   3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made,
      use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work,
      where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable
      by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their
      Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s)
      with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You
      institute patent litigation against any entity (including a
      cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work
      or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct
      or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses
      granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate
      as of the date such litigation is filed.

   4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the
      Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without
      modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You
      meet the following conditions:

      (a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or
          Derivative Works a copy of this License; and

      (b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices
          stating that You changed the files; and

      (c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works
          that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and
          attribution notices from the Source form of the Work,
          excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of
          the Derivative Works; and

      (d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its
          distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must
          include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained
          within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not
          pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one
          of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed
          as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or
          documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or,
          within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and
          wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents
          of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and
          do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution
          notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside
          or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided
          that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed
          as modifying the License.

      You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and
      may provide additional or different license terms and conditions
      for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or
      for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use,
      reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with
      the conditions stated in this License.

   5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise,
      any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work
      by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of
      this License, without any additional terms or conditions.
      Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify
      the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed
      with Licensor regarding such Contributions.

   6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade
      names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor,
      except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the
      origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

   7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or
      agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each
      Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS,
      WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
      implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions
      of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A
      PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the
      appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any
      risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.

   8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory,
      whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise,
      unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly
      negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be
      liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special,
      incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a
      result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the
      Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill,
      work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all
      other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor
      has been advised of the possibility of such damages.

   9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing
      the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer,
      and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity,
      or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this
      License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only
      on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf
      of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify,
      defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability
      incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason
      of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.

   END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

   APPENDIX: How to apply the Apache License to your work.

      To apply the Apache License to your work, attach the following
      boilerplate notice, with the fields enclosed by brackets "{}"
      replaced with your own identifying information. (Don't include
      the brackets!)  The text should be enclosed in the appropriate
      comment syntax for the file format. We also recommend that a
      file or class name and description of purpose be included on the
      same "printed page" as the copyright notice for easier
      identification within third-party archives.

   Copyright (c) 2018 by Contributors

   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.



Copyright 2017-2018 XGBoost contributors
Copyright 2015-2018 by Contributors file regression
Copyright 2014, 2017-2018 Contributors
Copyright 2014 by Contributors file bitmap.
Copyright 2014 by Contributors file group
Copyright 2018 Contributors author Rory Mitchell
Copyright 2017 by Contributors file compressed
Copyright 2015 Contributors file memory
Copyright 2014, 2017-2018 Contributors file updater
Copyright 2015 by Contributors file objective.cc brief Registry of all objective functions. 
Copyright (c) 2015 by Contributors file json.
Copyright (c) 2015 by Contributors file parameter.
Copyright 2018 by Contributors file hinge.cc brief Provides an implementation of the hinge loss function 
Copyright (c) 2014 by Contributors file rabit.
Copyright (c) 2014 by Contributors file page
Copyright 2015 by Contributors file gbm.cc brief Registry of gradient boosters. 
Copyright (c) 2014 by Contributors file serializable.
Copyright 2015-2018 by Contributors file common.cc brief Enable all kinds of global variables in common. 
Copyright (c) 2016 by Contributors file lua.
Copyright (c) 2016 by Contributors file any.
Copyright 2015 Contributors file type
Copyright 2015 by Contributors file random.
Copyright 2014 by Contributors file learner.cc brief Implementation of learning algorithm. 
Copyright (c) 2014-2019 by Contributors file rabit-inl.
Copyright 2015 by Contributors file math.
Copyright 2014-2015 Contributors file simple
Copyright 2018 XGBoost contributors brief span class based on ISO
Copyright 2014 by Contributors file gbtree.cc brief gradient boosted tree implementation. 
Copyright (c) 2015 by Contributors file omp.
Copyright (c) 2016 by Contributors file input
Copyright (c) 2014 by Contributors file utils.
Copyright (c) 2015 by Contributors file threadediter.
Copyright 2014 by Contributors file gblinear.cc brief Implementation of Linear booster with 
Copyright 2017-2019 Contributors file hist
Copyright 2014-2015 Contributors file tree
Copyright 2014 by Contributors define 
Copyright 2015-2018 by Contributors file multi
Copyright 2018 by Contributors file enum
Copyright 2015 Contributors file
Copyright (c) 2018 by Contributors file filesystem.
Copyright 2015 Contributors file base
Copyright (c) 2016 by Contributors file optional.
Copyright 2015 by Contributors file rank.cc brief Definition of rank loss. 
Copyright 2015-2018 Contributors file common
Copyright 2015 by Contributors file multiclass
Copyright 2014 by Contributors file feature
Copyright 2014-2015 Contributors file config
Copyright 2014-2019 Contributors file timer
Copyright 2014, 2018 Contributors file param
Copyright 2018 Contributors file split
Copyright 2015 by Contributors file data.cc 
Copyright 2014 by Contributors file quantile.
Copyright 2017 by Contributors file row
Copyright (c) 2015 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved. 
Copyright 2014-2015 Contributors file sparse
Copyright 2015 Contributors file logging
Copyright (c) 2015 by Contributors file recordio.
Copyright (c) 2014 by Contributors file engine.
Copyright 2015 Contributors file serializer
Copyright (c) 2015 Jeff Preshing 
Copyright (c) 2015 by Contributors file registry.
Copyright 2018-2019 Contributors file build
Copyright 2017 by Contributors file column
Copyright (c) 2017 by Contributors file endian.
Copyright 2014 by Contributors file base64.
Copyright (c) 2016 by Contributors file array
Copyright (c) 2015-2018 by Contributors file strtonum.
Copyright (c) 2013-2016 Cameron Desrochers. All rights reserved. 
Copyright 2015, 2017 Contributors file thread
Copyright 2015 Contributors file data
Copyright 2015-2018 by Contributors file elementwise
Copyright 2015-2018 by Contributors file logging.cc brief Implementation of loggers. 
Copyright 2015 by Contributors file learner.
Copyright 2015 by Contributors file rank
Copyright 2014 by Contributors file cli
Copyright 2014-2015, 2018 Contributors file metric
Copyright (c) 2015 by Contributors file concurrency.
Copyright 2018 by Contributors author Tianqi Chen Rory Mitchell 
Copyright 2014-2015 Contributors file io
Copyright 2014 by Contributors file objective.


zlib version 1.2.8
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
 (C) 1995-2013 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler

  This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied
  warranty.  In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages
  arising from the use of this software.

  Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose,
  including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it
  freely, subject to the following restrictions:

  1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not
     claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software
     in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be
     appreciated but is not required.
  2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be
     misrepresented as being the original software.
  3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.

  Jean-loup Gailly        Mark Adler
  jloup@gzip.org          madler@alumni.caltech.edu

If you use the zlib library in a product, we would appreciate *not* receiving
lengthy legal documents to sign.  The sources are provided for free but without
warranty of any kind.  The library has been entirely written by Jean-loup
Gailly and Mark Adler; it does not include third-party code.

If you redistribute modified sources, we would appreciate that you include in
the file ChangeLog history information documenting your changes.  Please read
the FAQ for more information on the distribution of modified source versions.

COPYRIGHT TEXT:
Copyright (c) 1997 Christian Michelsen Research AS Advanced Computing
Fantoftvegen 38, 5036 BERGEN, Norway http://www.cmr.no Permission to use, copy,
modify, distribute and sell this software and its documentation for any purpose
is hereby granted without fee, provided that the above copyright notice appear
in all copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation. Christian Michelsen Research AS makes no
representations about the suitability of this software for any purpose. It is
provided "as is" without express or implied warranty.

COPYRIGHT TEXT:
Copyright (C) 1998-2010 Gilles
Vollant (minizip) ( http://www.winimage.com/zLibDll/minizip.html ) Modifications
of Unzip for Zip64 Copyright (C) 2007-2008 Even Rouault Modifications for Zip64
support on both zip and unzip Copyright (C) 2009-2010 Mathias Svensson (
http://result42.com ) For more info read MiniZip_info.txt Decryption code comes
from crypt.c by Info-ZIP but has been greatly reduced in terms of compatibility
with older software. The following is from the original crypt.c. Code woven in
by Terry Thorsen 1/2003. Copyright (c) 1990-2000 Info-ZIP. All rights reserved.
See the accompanying file LICENSE, version 2000-Apr-09 or later (the contents of
which are also included in zip.h) for terms of use. If, for some reason, all
these files are missing, the Info-ZIP license also may be found at: ftp://ftp
.info-zip.org/pub/infozip/license.html crypt.c (full version) by Info-ZIP. Last
revised: [see crypt.h] The encryption/decryption parts of this source code (as
opposed to the non-echoing password parts) were originally written in Europe.
The whole source package can be freely distributed, including from the USA.
(Prior to January 2000, re-export from the US was a violation of US law.) This
encryption code is a direct transcription of the algorithm from Roger Schlafly,
described by Phil Katz in the file appnote.txt. This file (appnote.txt) is
distributed with the PKZIP program (even in the version without encryption
capabilities). Changes in unzip.c 2007-2008 - Even Rouault - Addition of
cpl_unzGetCurrentFileZStreamPos 2007-2008 - Even Rouault - Decoration of symbol
names unz -> cpl_unz 2007-2008 - Even Rouault - Remove old C style function
prototypes 2007-2008 - Even Rouault - Add unzip support for ZIP64 Copyright (C)
2007-2008 Even Rouault Oct-2009 - Mathias Svensson - Removed cpl_ from symbol
names (Even Rouault added them but since this is now moved to a new project
(minizip64) I renamed them again). Oct-2009 - Mathias Svensson - Fixed problem
if uncompressed size was > 4G and compressed size was <4G should only read the
compressed/uncompressed size from the Zip64 format if the size from normal
header was 0xFFFFFFFF Oct-2009 - Mathias Svensson - Applied some bug fixes from
paches recived from Gilles Vollant Oct-2009 - Mathias Svensson - Applied support
to unzip files with compression mathod BZIP2 (bzip2 lib is required) Patch
created by Daniel Borca Jan-2010 - back to unzip and minizip 1.0 name scheme,
with compatibility layer Copyright (C) 1998 - 2010 Gilles Vollant, Even Rouault,
Mathias Svensson

COPYRIGHT TEXT:
MiniZip - Copyright (c) 1998-2010 - by Gilles Vollant - version 1.1 64 bits
from Mathias Svensson
   Condition of use and distribution are the same than zlib :

  This software is provided 'as-is', without any express or implied
  warranty.  In no event will the authors be held liable for any damages
  arising from the use of this software.

  Permission is granted to anyone to use this software for any purpose,
  including commercial applications, and to alter it and redistribute it
  freely, subject to the following restrictions:

  1. The origin of this software must not be misrepresented; you must not
     claim that you wrote the original software. If you use this software
     in a product, an acknowledgment in the product documentation would be
     appreciated but is not required.
  2. Altered source versions must be plainly marked as such, and must not be
     misrepresented as being the original software.
  3. This notice may not be removed or altered from any source distribution.










Part Four: Certain Third-Party Template Licenses.

Index:

Apache License, version 2.0
Boost Software License, Version 1.0
Common Development and Distribution License (CDDL) Version 1.1
Eclipse Public License, version 1.0
GCC RUNTIME LIBRARY EXCEPTION
GNU General Public License, version 2
GNU General Public License, version 3
GNU Lesser General Public License, version 2.1
GNU Lesser General Public License, version 3
Mozilla Public License, version 1.1



Text of Template Licenses:




Apache License, version 2.0
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
                                 Apache License
                           Version 2.0, January 2004
                        http://www.apache.org/licenses/

   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

   1. Definitions.

      "License" shall mean the terms and conditions for use, reproduction,
      and distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

      "Licensor" shall mean the copyright owner or entity authorized by
      the copyright owner that is granting the License.

      "Legal Entity" shall mean the union of the acting entity and all
      other entities that control, are controlled by, or are under common
      control with that entity. For the purposes of this definition,
      "control" means (i) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the
      direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or
      otherwise, or (ii) ownership of fifty percent (50%) or more of the
      outstanding shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.

      "You" (or "Your") shall mean an individual or Legal Entity
      exercising permissions granted by this License.

      "Source" form shall mean the preferred form for making modifications,
      including but not limited to software source code, documentation
      source, and configuration files.

      "Object" form shall mean any form resulting from mechanical
      transformation or translation of a Source form, including but
      not limited to compiled object code, generated documentation,
      and conversions to other media types.

      "Work" shall mean the work of authorship, whether in Source or
      Object form, made available under the License, as indicated by a
      copyright notice that is included in or attached to the work
      (an example is provided in the Appendix below).

      "Derivative Works" shall mean any work, whether in Source or Object
      form, that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the
      editorial revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications
      represent, as a whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes
      of this License, Derivative Works shall not include works that remain
      separable from, or merely link (or bind by name) to the interfaces of,
      the Work and Derivative Works thereof.

      "Contribution" shall mean any work of authorship, including
      the original version of the Work and any modifications or additions
      to that Work or Derivative Works thereof, that is intentionally
      submitted to Licensor for inclusion in the Work by the copyright owner
      or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized to submit on behalf of
      the copyright owner. For the purposes of this definition, "submitted"
      means any form of electronic, verbal, or written communication sent
      to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not limited to
      communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control systems,
      and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the
      Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but
      excluding communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise
      designated in writing by the copyright owner as "Not a Contribution."

      "Contributor" shall mean Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity
      on behalf of whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and
      subsequently incorporated within the Work.

   2. Grant of Copyright License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of,
      publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and distribute the
      Work and such Derivative Works in Source or Object form.

   3. Grant of Patent License. Subject to the terms and conditions of
      this License, each Contributor hereby grants to You a perpetual,
      worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, irrevocable
      (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have made,
      use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work,
      where such license applies only to those patent claims licensable
      by such Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their
      Contribution(s) alone or by combination of their Contribution(s)
      with the Work to which such Contribution(s) was submitted. If You
      institute patent litigation against any entity (including a
      cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Work
      or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct
      or contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses
      granted to You under this License for that Work shall terminate
      as of the date such litigation is filed.

   4. Redistribution. You may reproduce and distribute copies of the
      Work or Derivative Works thereof in any medium, with or without
      modifications, and in Source or Object form, provided that You
      meet the following conditions:

      (a) You must give any other recipients of the Work or
          Derivative Works a copy of this License; and

      (b) You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices
          stating that You changed the files; and

      (c) You must retain, in the Source form of any Derivative Works
          that You distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and
          attribution notices from the Source form of the Work,
          excluding those notices that do not pertain to any part of
          the Derivative Works; and

      (d) If the Work includes a "NOTICE" text file as part of its
          distribution, then any Derivative Works that You distribute must
          include a readable copy of the attribution notices contained
          within such NOTICE file, excluding those notices that do not
          pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in at least one
          of the following places: within a NOTICE text file distributed
          as part of the Derivative Works; within the Source form or
          documentation, if provided along with the Derivative Works; or,
          within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and
          wherever such third-party notices normally appear. The contents
          of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and
          do not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution
          notices within Derivative Works that You distribute, alongside
          or as an addendum to the NOTICE text from the Work, provided
          that such additional attribution notices cannot be construed
          as modifying the License.

      You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and
      may provide additional or different license terms and conditions
      for use, reproduction, or distribution of Your modifications, or
      for any such Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use,
      reproduction, and distribution of the Work otherwise complies with
      the conditions stated in this License.

   5. Submission of Contributions. Unless You explicitly state otherwise,
      any Contribution intentionally submitted for inclusion in the Work
      by You to the Licensor shall be under the terms and conditions of
      this License, without any additional terms or conditions.
      Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or modify
      the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed
      with Licensor regarding such Contributions.

   6. Trademarks. This License does not grant permission to use the trade
      names, trademarks, service marks, or product names of the Licensor,
      except as required for reasonable and customary use in describing the
      origin of the Work and reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

   7. Disclaimer of Warranty. Unless required by applicable law or
      agreed to in writing, Licensor provides the Work (and each
      Contributor provides its Contributions) on an "AS IS" BASIS,
      WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or
      implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions
      of TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A
      PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You are solely responsible for determining the
      appropriateness of using or redistributing the Work and assume any
      risks associated with Your exercise of permissions under this License.

   8. Limitation of Liability. In no event and under no legal theory,
      whether in tort (including negligence), contract, or otherwise,
      unless required by applicable law (such as deliberate and grossly
      negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any Contributor be
      liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, special,
      incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a
      result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the
      Work (including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill,
      work stoppage, computer failure or malfunction, or any and all
      other commercial damages or losses), even if such Contributor
      has been advised of the possibility of such damages.

   9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. While redistributing
      the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to offer,
      and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity,
      or other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this
      License. However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only
      on Your own behalf and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf
      of any other Contributor, and only if You agree to indemnify,
      defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for any liability
      incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by reason
      of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.

   END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

   APPENDIX: How to apply the Apache License to your work.

      To apply the Apache License to your work, attach the following
      boilerplate notice, with the fields enclosed by brackets "[]"
      replaced with your own identifying information. (Don't include
      the brackets!)  The text should be enclosed in the appropriate
      comment syntax for the file format. We also recommend that a
      file or class name and description of purpose be included on the
      same "printed page" as the copyright notice for easier
      identification within third-party archives.

   Copyright [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]

   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
   You may obtain a copy of the License at

       http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
   limitations under the License.













Boost Software License, Version 1.0
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or organization
obtaining a copy of the software and accompanying documentation covered by
this license (the "Software") to use, reproduce, display, distribute,
execute, and transmit the Software, and to prepare derivative works of the
Software, and to permit third-parties to whom the Software is furnished to
do so, all subject to the following:

The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement, including
the above license grant, this restriction and the following disclaimer,
must be included in all copies of the Software, in whole or in part, and
all derivative works of the Software, unless such copies or derivative
works are solely in the form of machine-executable object code generated by
a source language processor.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT
SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE.









COMMON DEVELOPMENT AND DISTRIBUTION LICENSE (CDDL) Version 1.1
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
COMMON DEVELOPMENT AND DISTRIBUTION LICENSE (CDDL) Version 1.1
1. Definitions.

     1.1. "Contributor" means each individual or entity that creates or contributes to the creation of Modifications.

     1.2. "Contributor Version" means the combination of the Original Software, prior Modifications used by a Contributor (if any), and the Modifications made by that particular Contributor.

     1.3. "Covered Software" means (a) the Original Software, or (b) Modifications, or (c) the combination of files containing Original Software with files containing Modifications, in each case including portions thereof.

     1.4. "Executable" means the Covered Software in any form other than Source Code.

     1.5. "Initial Developer" means the individual or entity that first makes Original Software available under this License.

     1.6. "Larger Work" means a work which combines Covered Software or portions thereof with code not governed by the terms of this License.

     1.7. "License" means this document.

     1.8. "Licensable" means having the right to grant, to the maximum extent possible, whether at the time of the initial grant or subsequently acquired, any and all of the rights conveyed herein.

     1.9. "Modifications" means the Source Code and Executable form of any of the following:

     A. Any file that results from an addition to, deletion from or modification of the contents of a file containing Original Software or previous Modifications;

     B. Any new file that contains any part of the Original Software or previous Modification; or

     C. Any new file that is contributed or otherwise made available under the terms of this License.

     1.10. "Original Software" means the Source Code and Executable form of computer software code that is originally released under this License.

     1.11. "Patent Claims" means any patent claim(s), now owned or hereafter acquired, including without limitation, method, process, and apparatus claims, in any patent Licensable by grantor.

     1.12. "Source Code" means (a) the common form of computer software code in which modifications are made and (b) associated documentation included in or with such code.

     1.13. "You" (or "Your") means an individual or a legal entity exercising rights under, and complying with all of the terms of, this License. For legal entities, "You" includes any entity which controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with You. For purposes of this definition, "control" means (a) the power, direct or indirect, to cause the direction or management of such entity, whether by contract or otherwise, or (b) ownership of more than fifty percent (50%) of the outstanding shares or beneficial ownership of such entity.

2. License Grants.

     2.1. The Initial Developer Grant.

     Conditioned upon Your compliance with Section 3.1 below and subject to third party intellectual property claims, the Initial Developer hereby grants You a world-wide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license:

     (a) under intellectual property rights (other than patent or trademark) Licensable by Initial Developer, to use, reproduce, modify, display, perform, sublicense and distribute the Original Software (or portions thereof), with or without Modifications, and/or as part of a Larger Work; and

     (b) under Patent Claims infringed by the making, using or selling of Original Software, to make, have made, use, practice, sell, and offer for sale, and/or otherwise dispose of the Original Software (or portions thereof).

     (c) The licenses granted in Sections 2.1(a) and (b) are effective on the date Initial Developer first distributes or otherwise makes the Original Software available to a third party under the terms of this License.

     (d) Notwithstanding Section 2.1(b) above, no patent license is granted: (1) for code that You delete from the Original Software, or (2) for infringements caused by: (i) the modification of the Original Software, or (ii) the combination of the Original Software with other software or devices.

     2.2. Contributor Grant.

     Conditioned upon Your compliance with Section 3.1 below and subject to third party intellectual property claims, each Contributor hereby grants You a world-wide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license:

     (a) under intellectual property rights (other than patent or trademark) Licensable by Contributor to use, reproduce, modify, display, perform, sublicense and distribute the Modifications created by such Contributor (or portions thereof), either on an unmodified basis, with other Modifications, as Covered Software and/or as part of a Larger Work; and

     (b) under Patent Claims infringed by the making, using, or selling of Modifications made by that Contributor either alone and/or in combination with its Contributor Version (or portions of such combination), to make, use, sell, offer for sale, have made, and/or otherwise dispose of: (1) Modifications made by that Contributor (or portions thereof); and (2) the combination of Modifications made by that Contributor with its Contributor Version (or portions of such combination).

     (c) The licenses granted in Sections 2.2(a) and 2.2(b) are effective on the date Contributor first distributes or otherwise makes the Modifications available to a third party.

     (d) Notwithstanding Section 2.2(b) above, no patent license is granted: (1) for any code that Contributor has deleted from the Contributor Version; (2) for infringements caused by: (i) third party modifications of Contributor Version, or (ii) the combination of Modifications made by that Contributor with other software (except as part of the Contributor Version) or other devices; or (3) under Patent Claims infringed by Covered Software in the absence of Modifications made by that Contributor.

3. Distribution Obligations.

     3.1. Availability of Source Code.

     Any Covered Software that You distribute or otherwise make available in Executable form must also be made available in Source Code form and that Source Code form must be distributed only under the terms of this License. You must include a copy of this License with every copy of the Source Code form of the Covered Software You distribute or otherwise make available. You must inform recipients of any such Covered Software in Executable form as to how they can obtain such Covered Software in Source Code form in a reasonable manner on or through a medium customarily used for software exchange.

     3.2. Modifications.

     The Modifications that You create or to which You contribute are governed by the terms of this License. You represent that You believe Your Modifications are Your original creation(s) and/or You have sufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed by this License.

     3.3. Required Notices.

     You must include a notice in each of Your Modifications that identifies You as the Contributor of the Modification. You may not remove or alter any copyright, patent or trademark notices contained within the Covered Software, or any notices of licensing or any descriptive text giving attribution to any Contributor or the Initial Developer.

     3.4. Application of Additional Terms.

     You may not offer or impose any terms on any Covered Software in Source Code form that alters or restricts the applicable version of this License or the recipients' rights hereunder. You may choose to offer, and to charge a fee for, warranty, support, indemnity or liability obligations to one or more recipients of Covered Software. However, you may do so only on Your own behalf, and not on behalf of the Initial Developer or any Contributor. You must make it absolutely clear that any such warranty, support, indemnity or liability obligation is offered by You alone, and You hereby agree to indemnify the Initial Developer and every Contributor for any liability incurred by the Initial Developer or such Contributor as a result of warranty, support, indemnity or liability terms You offer.

     3.5. Distribution of Executable Versions.

     You may distribute the Executable form of the Covered Software under the terms of this License or under the terms of a license of Your choice, which may contain terms different from this License, provided that You are in compliance with the terms of this License and that the license for the Executable form does not attempt to limit or alter the recipient's rights in the Source Code form from the rights set forth in this License. If You distribute the Covered Software in Executable form under a different license, You must make it absolutely clear that any terms which differ from this License are offered by You alone, not by the Initial Developer or Contributor. You hereby agree to indemnify the Initial Developer and every Contributor for any liability incurred by the Initial Developer or such Contributor as a result of any such terms You offer.

     3.6. Larger Works.

     You may create a Larger Work by combining Covered Software with other code not governed by the terms of this License and distribute the Larger Work as a single product. In such a case, You must make sure the requirements of this License are fulfilled for the Covered Software.

4. Versions of the License.

     4.1. New Versions.

     Oracle is the initial license steward and may publish revised and/or new versions of this License from time to time. Each version will be given a distinguishing version number. Except as provided in Section 4.3, no one other than the license steward has the right to modify this License.

     4.2. Effect of New Versions.

     You may always continue to use, distribute or otherwise make the Covered Software available under the terms of the version of the License under which You originally received the Covered Software. If the Initial Developer includes a notice in the Original Software prohibiting it from being distributed or otherwise made available under any subsequent version of the License, You must distribute and make the Covered Software available under the terms of the version of the License under which You originally received the Covered Software. Otherwise, You may also choose to use, distribute or otherwise make the Covered Software available under the terms of any subsequent version of the License published by the license steward.

     4.3. Modified Versions.

     When You are an Initial Developer and You want to create a new license for Your Original Software, You may create and use a modified version of this License if You: (a) rename the license and remove any references to the name of the license steward (except to note that the license differs from this License); and (b) otherwise make it clear that the license contains terms which differ from this License.

5. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY.

     COVERED SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED UNDER THIS LICENSE ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES THAT THE COVERED SOFTWARE IS FREE OF DEFECTS, MERCHANTABLE, FIT FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGING. THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE COVERED SOFTWARE IS WITH YOU. SHOULD ANY COVERED SOFTWARE PROVE DEFECTIVE IN ANY RESPECT, YOU (NOT THE INITIAL DEVELOPER OR ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR) ASSUME THE COST OF ANY NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION. THIS DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY CONSTITUTES AN ESSENTIAL PART OF THIS LICENSE. NO USE OF ANY COVERED SOFTWARE IS AUTHORIZED HEREUNDER EXCEPT UNDER THIS DISCLAIMER.

6. TERMINATION.

     6.1. This License and the rights granted hereunder will terminate automatically if You fail to comply with terms herein and fail to cure such breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. Provisions which, by their nature, must remain in effect beyond the termination of this License shall survive.

     6.2. If You assert a patent infringement claim (excluding declaratory judgment actions) against Initial Developer or a Contributor (the Initial Developer or Contributor against whom You assert such claim is referred to as "Participant") alleging that the Participant Software (meaning the Contributor Version where the Participant is a Contributor or the Original Software where the Participant is the Initial Developer) directly or indirectly infringes any patent, then any and all rights granted directly or indirectly to You by such Participant, the Initial Developer (if the Initial Developer is not the Participant) and all Contributors under Sections 2.1 and/or 2.2 of this License shall, upon 60 days notice from Participant terminate prospectively and automatically at the expiration of such 60 day notice period, unless if within such 60 day period You withdraw Your claim with respect to the Participant Software against such Participant either unilaterally or pursuant to a written agreement with Participant.

     6.3. If You assert a patent infringement claim against Participant alleging that the Participant Software directly or indirectly infringes any patent where such claim is resolved (such as by license or settlement) prior to the initiation of patent infringement litigation, then the reasonable value of the licenses granted by such Participant under Sections 2.1 or 2.2 shall be taken into account in determining the amount or value of any payment or license.

     6.4. In the event of termination under Sections 6.1 or 6.2 above, all end user licenses that have been validly granted by You or any distributor hereunder prior to termination (excluding licenses granted to You by any distributor) shall survive termination.

7. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.

     UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES AND UNDER NO LEGAL THEORY, WHETHER TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), CONTRACT, OR OTHERWISE, SHALL YOU, THE INITIAL DEVELOPER, ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR, OR ANY DISTRIBUTOR OF COVERED SOFTWARE, OR ANY SUPPLIER OF ANY OF SUCH PARTIES, BE LIABLE TO ANY PERSON FOR ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY CHARACTER INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF GOODWILL, WORK STOPPAGE, COMPUTER FAILURE OR MALFUNCTION, OR ANY AND ALL OTHER COMMERCIAL DAMAGES OR LOSSES, EVEN IF SUCH PARTY SHALL HAVE BEEN INFORMED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. THIS LIMITATION OF LIABILITY SHALL NOT APPLY TO LIABILITY FOR DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURY RESULTING FROM SUCH PARTY'S NEGLIGENCE TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE LAW PROHIBITS SUCH LIMITATION. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO THIS EXCLUSION AND LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

8. U.S. GOVERNMENT END USERS.

     The Covered Software is a "commercial item," as that term is defined in 48 C.F.R. 2.101 (Oct. 1995), consisting of "commercial computer software" (as that term is defined at 48 C.F.R. © 252.227-7014(a)(1)) and "commercial computer software documentation" as such terms are used in 48 C.F.R. 12.212 (Sept. 1995). Consistent with 48 C.F.R. 12.212 and 48 C.F.R. 227.7202-1 through 227.7202-4 (June 1995), all U.S. Government End Users acquire Covered Software with only those rights set forth herein. This U.S. Government Rights clause is in lieu of, and supersedes, any other FAR, DFAR, or other clause or provision that addresses Government rights in computer software under this License.

9. MISCELLANEOUS.

     This License represents the complete agreement concerning subject matter hereof. If any provision of this License is held to be unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent necessary to make it enforceable. This License shall be governed by the law of the jurisdiction specified in a notice contained within the Original Software (except to the extent applicable law, if any, provides otherwise), excluding such jurisdiction's conflict-of-law provisions. Any litigation relating to this License shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the courts located in the jurisdiction and venue specified in a notice contained within the Original Software, with the losing party responsible for costs, including, without limitation, court costs and reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses. The application of the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods is expressly excluded. Any law or regulation which provides that the language of a contract shall be construed against the drafter shall not apply to this License. You agree that You alone are responsible for compliance with the United States export administration regulations (and the export control laws and regulation of any other countries) when You use, distribute or otherwise make available any Covered Software.

10. RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLAIMS.

     As between Initial Developer and the Contributors, each party is responsible for claims and damages arising, directly or indirectly, out of its utilization of rights under this License and You agree to work with Initial Developer and Contributors to distribute such responsibility on an equitable basis. Nothing herein is intended or shall be deemed to constitute any admission of liability.

----------
NOTICE PURSUANT TO SECTION 9 OF THE COMMON DEVELOPMENT AND DISTRIBUTION LICENSE (CDDL)
The code released under the CDDL shall be governed by the laws of the State of California (excluding conflict-of-law provisions). Any litigation relating to this License shall be subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Courts of the Northern District of California and the state courts of the State of California, with venue lying in Santa Clara County, California.















Eclipse Public License, version 1.0
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
Eclipse Public License - v 1.0
THE ACCOMPANYING PROGRAM IS PROVIDED UNDER THE TERMS OF THIS ECLIPSE PUBLIC LICENSE ("AGREEMENT"). ANY USE, REPRODUCTION OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE PROGRAM CONSTITUTES RECIPIENT'S ACCEPTANCE OF THIS AGREEMENT.

1. DEFINITIONS

"Contribution" means:

a) in the case of the initial Contributor, the initial code and documentation distributed under this Agreement, and

b) in the case of each subsequent Contributor:

i) changes to the Program, and

ii) additions to the Program;

where such changes and/or additions to the Program originate from and are distributed by that particular Contributor. A Contribution 'originates' from a Contributor if it was added to the Program by such Contributor itself or anyone acting on such Contributor's behalf. Contributions do not include additions to the Program which: (i) are separate modules of software distributed in conjunction with the Program under their own license agreement, and (ii) are not derivative works of the Program.

"Contributor" means any person or entity that distributes the Program.

"Licensed Patents" mean patent claims licensable by a Contributor which are necessarily infringed by the use or sale of its Contribution alone or when combined with the Program.

"Program" means the Contributions distributed in accordance with this Agreement.

"Recipient" means anyone who receives the Program under this Agreement, including all Contributors.

2. GRANT OF RIGHTS

a) Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby grants Recipient a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free copyright license to reproduce, prepare derivative works of, publicly display, publicly perform, distribute and sublicense the Contribution of such Contributor, if any, and such derivative works, in source code and object code form.

b) Subject to the terms of this Agreement, each Contributor hereby grants Recipient a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free patent license under Licensed Patents to make, use, sell, offer to sell, import and otherwise transfer the Contribution of such Contributor, if any, in source code and object code form. This patent license shall apply to the combination of the Contribution and the Program if, at the time the Contribution is added by the Contributor, such addition of the Contribution causes such combination to be covered by the Licensed Patents. The patent license shall not apply to any other combinations which include the Contribution. No hardware per se is licensed hereunder.

c) Recipient understands that although each Contributor grants the licenses to its Contributions set forth herein, no assurances are provided by any Contributor that the Program does not infringe the patent or other intellectual property rights of any other entity. Each Contributor disclaims any liability to Recipient for claims brought by any other entity based on infringement of intellectual property rights or otherwise. As a condition to exercising the rights and licenses granted hereunder, each Recipient hereby assumes sole responsibility to secure any other intellectual property rights needed, if any. For example, if a third party patent license is required to allow Recipient to distribute the Program, it is Recipient's responsibility to acquire that license before distributing the Program.

d) Each Contributor represents that to its knowledge it has sufficient copyright rights in its Contribution, if any, to grant the copyright license set forth in this Agreement.

3. REQUIREMENTS

A Contributor may choose to distribute the Program in object code form under its own license agreement, provided that:

a) it complies with the terms and conditions of this Agreement; and

b) its license agreement:

i) effectively disclaims on behalf of all Contributors all warranties and conditions, express and implied, including warranties or conditions of title and non-infringement, and implied warranties or conditions of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose;

ii) effectively excludes on behalf of all Contributors all liability for damages, including direct, indirect, special, incidental and consequential damages, such as lost profits;

iii) states that any provisions which differ from this Agreement are offered by that Contributor alone and not by any other party; and

iv) states that source code for the Program is available from such Contributor, and informs licensees how to obtain it in a reasonable manner on or through a medium customarily used for software exchange.

When the Program is made available in source code form:

a) it must be made available under this Agreement; and

b) a copy of this Agreement must be included with each copy of the Program.

Contributors may not remove or alter any copyright notices contained within the Program.

Each Contributor must identify itself as the originator of its Contribution, if any, in a manner that reasonably allows subsequent Recipients to identify the originator of the Contribution.

4. COMMERCIAL DISTRIBUTION

Commercial distributors of software may accept certain responsibilities with respect to end users, business partners and the like. While this license is intended to facilitate the commercial use of the Program, the Contributor who includes the Program in a commercial product offering should do so in a manner which does not create potential liability for other Contributors. Therefore, if a Contributor includes the Program in a commercial product offering, such Contributor ("Commercial Contributor") hereby agrees to defend and indemnify every other Contributor ("Indemnified Contributor") against any losses, damages and costs (collectively "Losses") arising from claims, lawsuits and other legal actions brought by a third party against the Indemnified Contributor to the extent caused by the acts or omissions of such Commercial Contributor in connection with its distribution of the Program in a commercial product offering. The obligations in this section do not apply to any claims or Losses relating to any actual or alleged intellectual property infringement. In order to qualify, an Indemnified Contributor must: a) promptly notify the Commercial Contributor in writing of such claim, and b) allow the Commercial Contributor to control, and cooperate with the Commercial Contributor in, the defense and any related settlement negotiations. The Indemnified Contributor may participate in any such claim at its own expense.

For example, a Contributor might include the Program in a commercial product offering, Product X. That Contributor is then a Commercial Contributor. If that Commercial Contributor then makes performance claims, or offers warranties related to Product X, those performance claims and warranties are such Commercial Contributor's responsibility alone. Under this section, the Commercial Contributor would have to defend claims against the other Contributors related to those performance claims and warranties, and if a court requires any other Contributor to pay any damages as a result, the Commercial Contributor must pay those damages.

5. NO WARRANTY

EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, THE PROGRAM IS PROVIDED ON AN "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF TITLE, NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. Each Recipient is solely responsible for determining the appropriateness of using and distributing the Program and assumes all risks associated with its exercise of rights under this Agreement , including but not limited to the risks and costs of program errors, compliance with applicable laws, damage to or loss of data, programs or equipment, and unavailability or interruption of operations.

6. DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY

EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, NEITHER RECIPIENT NOR ANY CONTRIBUTORS SHALL HAVE ANY LIABILITY FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION LOST PROFITS), HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OR DISTRIBUTION OF THE PROGRAM OR THE EXERCISE OF ANY RIGHTS GRANTED HEREUNDER, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

7. GENERAL

If any provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable under applicable law, it shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remainder of the terms of this Agreement, and without further action by the parties hereto, such provision shall be reformed to the minimum extent necessary to make such provision valid and enforceable.

If Recipient institutes patent litigation against any entity (including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the Program itself (excluding combinations of the Program with other software or hardware) infringes such Recipient's patent(s), then such Recipient's rights granted under Section 2(b) shall terminate as of the date such litigation is filed.

All Recipient's rights under this Agreement shall terminate if it fails to comply with any of the material terms or conditions of this Agreement and does not cure such failure in a reasonable period of time after becoming aware of such noncompliance. If all Recipient's rights under this Agreement terminate, Recipient agrees to cease use and distribution of the Program as soon as reasonably practicable. However, Recipient's obligations under this Agreement and any licenses granted by Recipient relating to the Program shall continue and survive.

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute copies of this Agreement, but in order to avoid inconsistency the Agreement is copyrighted and may only be modified in the following manner. The Agreement Steward reserves the right to publish new versions (including revisions) of this Agreement from time to time. No one other than the Agreement Steward has the right to modify this Agreement. The Eclipse Foundation is the initial Agreement Steward. The Eclipse Foundation may assign the responsibility to serve as the Agreement Steward to a suitable separate entity. Each new version of the Agreement will be given a distinguishing version number. The Program (including Contributions) may always be distributed subject to the version of the Agreement under which it was received. In addition, after a new version of the Agreement is published, Contributor may elect to distribute the Program (including its Contributions) under the new version. Except as expressly stated in Sections 2(a) and 2(b) above, Recipient receives no rights or licenses to the intellectual property of any Contributor under this Agreement, whether expressly, by implication, estoppel or otherwise. All rights in the Program not expressly granted under this Agreement are reserved.

This Agreement is governed by the laws of the State of New York and the intellectual property laws of the United States of America. No party to this Agreement will bring a legal action under this Agreement more than one year after the cause of action arose. Each party waives its rights to a jury trial in any resulting litigation.








GCC RUNTIME LIBRARY EXCEPTION
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
Version 3.1, 31 March 2009

Copyright (C) 2009 Free Software Foundation, Inc. <http://fsf.org/>

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this
license document, but changing it is not allowed.

This GCC Runtime Library Exception ("Exception") is an additional
permission under section 7 of the GNU General Public License, version
3 ("GPLv3"). It applies to a given file (the "Runtime Library") that
bears a notice placed by the copyright holder of the file stating that
the file is governed by GPLv3 along with this Exception.

When you use GCC to compile a program, GCC may combine portions of
certain GCC header files and runtime libraries with the compiled
program. The purpose of this Exception is to allow compilation of
non-GPL (including proprietary) programs to use, in this way, the
header files and runtime libraries covered by this Exception.

0. Definitions.

A file is an "Independent Module" if it either requires the Runtime
Library for execution after a Compilation Process, or makes use of an
interface provided by the Runtime Library, but is not otherwise based
on the Runtime Library.

"GCC" means a version of the GNU Compiler Collection, with or without
modifications, governed by version 3 (or a specified later version) of
the GNU General Public License (GPL) with the option of using any
subsequent versions published by the FSF.

"GPL-compatible Software" is software whose conditions of propagation,
modification and use would permit combination with GCC in accord with
the license of GCC.

"Target Code" refers to output from any compiler for a real or virtual
target processor architecture, in executable form or suitable for
input to an assembler, loader, linker and/or execution
phase. Notwithstanding that, Target Code does not include data in any
format that is used as a compiler intermediate representation, or used
for producing a compiler intermediate representation.

The "Compilation Process" transforms code entirely represented in
non-intermediate languages designed for human-written code, and/or in
Java Virtual Machine byte code, into Target Code. Thus, for example,
use of source code generators and preprocessors need not be considered
part of the Compilation Process, since the Compilation Process can be
understood as starting with the output of the generators or
preprocessors.

A Compilation Process is "Eligible" if it is done using GCC, alone or
with other GPL-compatible software, or if it is done without using any
work based on GCC. For example, using non-GPL-compatible Software to
optimize any GCC intermediate representations would not qualify as an
Eligible Compilation Process.

1. Grant of Additional Permission.

You have permission to propagate a work of Target Code formed by
combining the Runtime Library with Independent Modules, even if such
propagation would otherwise violate the terms of GPLv3, provided that
all Target Code was generated by Eligible Compilation Processes. You
may then convey such a combination under terms of your choice,
consistent with the licensing of the Independent Modules.

2. No Weakening of GCC Copyleft.

The availability of this Exception does not imply any general
presumption that third-party software is unaffected by the copyleft
requirements of the license of GCC.
















GNU General Public License, version 2
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
                    GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
                       Version 2, June 1991

 Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

                            Preamble

  The licenses for most software are designed to take away your
freedom to share and change it.  By contrast, the GNU General Public
License is intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change free
software--to make sure the software is free for all its users.  This
General Public License applies to most of the Free Software
Foundation's software and to any other program whose authors commit to
using it.  (Some other Free Software Foundation software is covered by
the GNU Lesser General Public License instead.)  You can apply it to
your programs, too.

  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not
price.  Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you
have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for
this service if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it
if you want it, that you can change the software or use pieces of it
in new free programs; and that you know you can do these things.

  To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid
anyone to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights.
These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you
distribute copies of the software, or if you modify it.

  For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether
gratis or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that
you have.  You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the
source code.  And you must show them these terms so they know their
rights.

  We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and
(2) offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy,
distribute and/or modify the software.

  Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain
that everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free
software.  If the software is modified by someone else and passed on, we
want its recipients to know that what they have is not the original, so
that any problems introduced by others will not reflect on the original
authors' reputations.

  Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software
patents.  We wish to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free
program will individually obtain patent licenses, in effect making the
program proprietary.  To prevent this, we have made it clear that any
patent must be licensed for everyone's free use or not licensed at all.

  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.

                    GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

  0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains
a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed
under the terms of this General Public License.  The "Program", below,
refers to any such program or work, and a "work based on the Program"
means either the Program or any derivative work under copyright law:
that is to say, a work containing the Program or a portion of it,
either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated into another
language.  (Hereinafter, translation is included without limitation in
the term "modification".)  Each licensee is addressed as "you".

Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not
covered by this License; they are outside its scope.  The act of
running the Program is not restricted, and the output from the Program
is covered only if its contents constitute a work based on the
Program (independent of having been made by running the Program).
Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.

  1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's
source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you
conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate
copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the
notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any warranty;
and give any other recipients of the Program a copy of this License
along with the Program.

You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and
you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.

  2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion
of it, thus forming a work based on the Program, and copy and
distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1
above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

    a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices
    stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.

    b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in
    whole or in part contains or is derived from the Program or any
    part thereof, to be licensed as a whole at no charge to all third
    parties under the terms of this License.

    c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively
    when run, you must cause it, when started running for such
    interactive use in the most ordinary way, to print or display an
    announcement including an appropriate copyright notice and a
    notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that you provide
    a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under
    these conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this
    License.  (Exception: if the Program itself is interactive but
    does not normally print such an announcement, your work based on
    the Program is not required to print an announcement.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.  If
identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Program,
and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in
themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those
sections when you distribute them as separate works.  But when you
distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based
on the Program, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest
your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to
exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or
collective works based on the Program.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Program
with the Program (or with a work based on the Program) on a volume of
a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under
the scope of this License.

  3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it,
under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of
Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you also do one of the following:

    a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable
    source code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections
    1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange; or,

    b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three
    years, to give any third party, for a charge no more than your
    cost of physically performing source distribution, a complete
    machine-readable copy of the corresponding source code, to be
    distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium
    customarily used for software interchange; or,

    c) Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer
    to distribute corresponding source code.  (This alternative is
    allowed only for noncommercial distribution and only if you
    received the program in object code or executable form with such
    an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)

The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for
making modifications to it.  For an executable work, complete source
code means all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any
associated interface definition files, plus the scripts used to
control compilation and installation of the executable.  However, as a
special exception, the source code distributed need not include
anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary
form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the
operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component
itself accompanies the executable.

If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering
access to copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent
access to copy the source code from the same place counts as
distribution of the source code, even though third parties are not
compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

  4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program
except as expressly provided under this License.  Any attempt
otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense or distribute the Program is
void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this License.
However, parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under
this License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such
parties remain in full compliance.

  5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not
signed it.  However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or
distribute the Program or its derivative works.  These actions are
prohibited by law if you do not accept this License.  Therefore, by
modifying or distributing the Program (or any work based on the
Program), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and
all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying
the Program or works based on it.

  6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the
Program), the recipient automatically receives a license from the
original licensor to copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to
these terms and conditions.  You may not impose any further
restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.
You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties to
this License.

  7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not
excuse you from the conditions of this License.  If you cannot
distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this
License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you
may not distribute the Program at all.  For example, if a patent
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Program by
all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then
the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to
refrain entirely from distribution of the Program.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under
any particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to
apply and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other
circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any
patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any
such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the
integrity of the free software distribution system, which is
implemented by public license practices.  Many people have made
generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed
through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing
to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot
impose that choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to
be a consequence of the rest of this License.

  8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in
certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the
original copyright holder who places the Program under this License
may add an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding
those countries, so that distribution is permitted only in or among
countries not thus excluded.  In such case, this License incorporates
the limitation as if written in the body of this License.

  9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions
of the General Public License from time to time.  Such new versions will
be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to
address new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Program
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any
later version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions
either of that version or of any later version published by the Free
Software Foundation.  If the Program does not specify a version number of
this License, you may choose any version ever published by the Free Software
Foundation.

  10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free
programs whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author
to ask for permission.  For software which is copyrighted by the Free
Software Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes
make exceptions for this.  Our decision will be guided by the two goals
of preserving the free status of all derivatives of our free software and
of promoting the sharing and reuse of software generally.

                            NO WARRANTY

  11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY
FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.  EXCEPT WHEN
OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES
PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS
TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE
PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING,
REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

  12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR
REDISTRIBUTE THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES,
INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING
OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED
TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY
YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER
PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.

                     END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

            How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

  If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest
possible use to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it
free software which everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

  To do so, attach the following notices to the program.  It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively
convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least
the "copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

    <one line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
    Copyright (C) <year>  <name of author>

    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
    with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
    51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA 02110-1301 USA.

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this
when it starts in an interactive mode:

    Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) year name of author
    Gnomovision comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'.
    This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it
    under certain conditions; type `show c' for details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License.  Of course, the commands you use may
be called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be
mouse-clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your
school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if
necessary.  Here is a sample; alter the names:

  Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program
  `Gnomovision' (which makes passes at compilers) written by James Hacker.

  <signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1989
  Ty Coon, President of Vice

This General Public License does not permit incorporating your program into
proprietary programs.  If your program is a subroutine library, you may
consider it more useful to permit linking proprietary applications with the
library.  If this is what you want to do, use the GNU Lesser General
Public License instead of this License.





















GNU General Public License, version 3
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
                    GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
                       Version 3, 29 June 2007

 Copyright (C) 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc. <http://fsf.org/>
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

                            Preamble

  The GNU General Public License is a free, copyleft license for
software and other kinds of works.

  The licenses for most software and other practical works are designed
to take away your freedom to share and change the works.  By contrast,
the GNU General Public License is intended to guarantee your freedom to
share and change all versions of a program--to make sure it remains free
software for all its users.  We, the Free Software Foundation, use the
GNU General Public License for most of our software; it applies also to
any other work released this way by its authors.  You can apply it to
your programs, too.

  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not
price.  Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you
have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for
them if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it if you
want it, that you can change the software or use pieces of it in new
free programs, and that you know you can do these things.

  To protect your rights, we need to prevent others from denying you
these rights or asking you to surrender the rights.  Therefore, you have
certain responsibilities if you distribute copies of the software, or if
you modify it: responsibilities to respect the freedom of others.

  For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether
gratis or for a fee, you must pass on to the recipients the same
freedoms that you received.  You must make sure that they, too, receive
or can get the source code.  And you must show them these terms so they
know their rights.

  Developers that use the GNU GPL protect your rights with two steps:
(1) assert copyright on the software, and (2) offer you this License
giving you legal permission to copy, distribute and/or modify it.

  For the developers' and authors' protection, the GPL clearly explains
that there is no warranty for this free software.  For both users' and
authors' sake, the GPL requires that modified versions be marked as
changed, so that their problems will not be attributed erroneously to
authors of previous versions.

  Some devices are designed to deny users access to install or run
modified versions of the software inside them, although the manufacturer
can do so.  This is fundamentally incompatible with the aim of
protecting users' freedom to change the software.  The systematic
pattern of such abuse occurs in the area of products for individuals to
use, which is precisely where it is most unacceptable.  Therefore, we
have designed this version of the GPL to prohibit the practice for those
products.  If such problems arise substantially in other domains, we
stand ready to extend this provision to those domains in future versions
of the GPL, as needed to protect the freedom of users.

  Finally, every program is threatened constantly by software patents.
States should not allow patents to restrict development and use of
software on general-purpose computers, but in those that do, we wish to
avoid the special danger that patents applied to a free program could
make it effectively proprietary.  To prevent this, the GPL assures that
patents cannot be used to render the program non-free.

  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.

                       TERMS AND CONDITIONS

  0. Definitions.

  "This License" refers to version 3 of the GNU General Public License.

  "Copyright" also means copyright-like laws that apply to other kinds of
works, such as semiconductor masks.

  "The Program" refers to any copyrightable work licensed under this
License.  Each licensee is addressed as "you".  "Licensees" and
"recipients" may be individuals or organizations.

  To "modify" a work means to copy from or adapt all or part of the work
in a fashion requiring copyright permission, other than the making of an
exact copy.  The resulting work is called a "modified version" of the
earlier work or a work "based on" the earlier work.

  A "covered work" means either the unmodified Program or a work based
on the Program.

  To "propagate" a work means to do anything with it that, without
permission, would make you directly or secondarily liable for
infringement under applicable copyright law, except executing it on a
computer or modifying a private copy.  Propagation includes copying,
distribution (with or without modification), making available to the
public, and in some countries other activities as well.

  To "convey" a work means any kind of propagation that enables other
parties to make or receive copies.  Mere interaction with a user through
a computer network, with no transfer of a copy, is not conveying.

  An interactive user interface displays "Appropriate Legal Notices"
to the extent that it includes a convenient and prominently visible
feature that (1) displays an appropriate copyright notice, and (2)
tells the user that there is no warranty for the work (except to the
extent that warranties are provided), that licensees may convey the
work under this License, and how to view a copy of this License.  If
the interface presents a list of user commands or options, such as a
menu, a prominent item in the list meets this criterion.

  1. Source Code.

  The "source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work
for making modifications to it.  "Object code" means any non-source
form of a work.

  A "Standard Interface" means an interface that either is an official
standard defined by a recognized standards body, or, in the case of
interfaces specified for a particular programming language, one that
is widely used among developers working in that language.

  The "System Libraries" of an executable work include anything, other
than the work as a whole, that (a) is included in the normal form of
packaging a Major Component, but which is not part of that Major
Component, and (b) serves only to enable use of the work with that
Major Component, or to implement a Standard Interface for which an
implementation is available to the public in source code form.  A
"Major Component", in this context, means a major essential component
(kernel, window system, and so on) of the specific operating system
(if any) on which the executable work runs, or a compiler used to
produce the work, or an object code interpreter used to run it.

  The "Corresponding Source" for a work in object code form means all
the source code needed to generate, install, and (for an executable
work) run the object code and to modify the work, including scripts to
control those activities.  However, it does not include the work's
System Libraries, or general-purpose tools or generally available free
programs which are used unmodified in performing those activities but
which are not part of the work.  For example, Corresponding Source
includes interface definition files associated with source files for
the work, and the source code for shared libraries and dynamically
linked subprograms that the work is specifically designed to require,
such as by intimate data communication or control flow between those
subprograms and other parts of the work.

  The Corresponding Source need not include anything that users
can regenerate automatically from other parts of the Corresponding
Source.

  The Corresponding Source for a work in source code form is that
same work.

  2. Basic Permissions.

  All rights granted under this License are granted for the term of
copyright on the Program, and are irrevocable provided the stated
conditions are met.  This License explicitly affirms your unlimited
permission to run the unmodified Program.  The output from running a
covered work is covered by this License only if the output, given its
content, constitutes a covered work.  This License acknowledges your
rights of fair use or other equivalent, as provided by copyright law.

  You may make, run and propagate covered works that you do not
convey, without conditions so long as your license otherwise remains
in force.  You may convey covered works to others for the sole purpose
of having them make modifications exclusively for you, or provide you
with facilities for running those works, provided that you comply with
the terms of this License in conveying all material for which you do
not control copyright.  Those thus making or running the covered works
for you must do so exclusively on your behalf, under your direction
and control, on terms that prohibit them from making any copies of
your copyrighted material outside their relationship with you.

  Conveying under any other circumstances is permitted solely under
the conditions stated below.  Sublicensing is not allowed; section 10
makes it unnecessary.

  3. Protecting Users' Legal Rights From Anti-Circumvention Law.

  No covered work shall be deemed part of an effective technological
measure under any applicable law fulfilling obligations under article
11 of the WIPO copyright treaty adopted on 20 December 1996, or
similar laws prohibiting or restricting circumvention of such
measures.

  When you convey a covered work, you waive any legal power to forbid
circumvention of technological measures to the extent such circumvention
is effected by exercising rights under this License with respect to
the covered work, and you disclaim any intention to limit operation or
modification of the work as a means of enforcing, against the work's
users, your or third parties' legal rights to forbid circumvention of
technological measures.

  4. Conveying Verbatim Copies.

  You may convey verbatim copies of the Program's source code as you
receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and
appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice;
keep intact all notices stating that this License and any
non-permissive terms added in accord with section 7 apply to the code;
keep intact all notices of the absence of any warranty; and give all
recipients a copy of this License along with the Program.

  You may charge any price or no price for each copy that you convey,
and you may offer support or warranty protection for a fee.

  5. Conveying Modified Source Versions.

  You may convey a work based on the Program, or the modifications to
produce it from the Program, in the form of source code under the
terms of section 4, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

    a) The work must carry prominent notices stating that you modified
    it, and giving a relevant date.

    b) The work must carry prominent notices stating that it is
    released under this License and any conditions added under section
    7.  This requirement modifies the requirement in section 4 to
    "keep intact all notices".

    c) You must license the entire work, as a whole, under this
    License to anyone who comes into possession of a copy.  This
    License will therefore apply, along with any applicable section 7
    additional terms, to the whole of the work, and all its parts,
    regardless of how they are packaged.  This License gives no
    permission to license the work in any other way, but it does not
    invalidate such permission if you have separately received it.

    d) If the work has interactive user interfaces, each must display
    Appropriate Legal Notices; however, if the Program has interactive
    interfaces that do not display Appropriate Legal Notices, your
    work need not make them do so.

  A compilation of a covered work with other separate and independent
works, which are not by their nature extensions of the covered work,
and which are not combined with it such as to form a larger program,
in or on a volume of a storage or distribution medium, is called an
"aggregate" if the compilation and its resulting copyright are not
used to limit the access or legal rights of the compilation's users
beyond what the individual works permit.  Inclusion of a covered work
in an aggregate does not cause this License to apply to the other
parts of the aggregate.

  6. Conveying Non-Source Forms.

  You may convey a covered work in object code form under the terms
of sections 4 and 5, provided that you also convey the
machine-readable Corresponding Source under the terms of this License,
in one of these ways:

    a) Convey the object code in, or embodied in, a physical product
    (including a physical distribution medium), accompanied by the
    Corresponding Source fixed on a durable physical medium
    customarily used for software interchange.

    b) Convey the object code in, or embodied in, a physical product
    (including a physical distribution medium), accompanied by a
    written offer, valid for at least three years and valid for as
    long as you offer spare parts or customer support for that product
    model, to give anyone who possesses the object code either (1) a
    copy of the Corresponding Source for all the software in the
    product that is covered by this License, on a durable physical
    medium customarily used for software interchange, for a price no
    more than your reasonable cost of physically performing this
    conveying of source, or (2) access to copy the
    Corresponding Source from a network server at no charge.

    c) Convey individual copies of the object code with a copy of the
    written offer to provide the Corresponding Source.  This
    alternative is allowed only occasionally and noncommercially, and
    only if you received the object code with such an offer, in accord
    with subsection 6b.

    d) Convey the object code by offering access from a designated
    place (gratis or for a charge), and offer equivalent access to the
    Corresponding Source in the same way through the same place at no
    further charge.  You need not require recipients to copy the
    Corresponding Source along with the object code.  If the place to
    copy the object code is a network server, the Corresponding Source
    may be on a different server (operated by you or a third party)
    that supports equivalent copying facilities, provided you maintain
    clear directions next to the object code saying where to find the
    Corresponding Source.  Regardless of what server hosts the
    Corresponding Source, you remain obligated to ensure that it is
    available for as long as needed to satisfy these requirements.

    e) Convey the object code using peer-to-peer transmission, provided
    you inform other peers where the object code and Corresponding
    Source of the work are being offered to the general public at no
    charge under subsection 6d.

  A separable portion of the object code, whose source code is excluded
from the Corresponding Source as a System Library, need not be
included in conveying the object code work.

  A "User Product" is either (1) a "consumer product", which means any
tangible personal property which is normally used for personal, family,
or household purposes, or (2) anything designed or sold for incorporation
into a dwelling.  In determining whether a product is a consumer product,
doubtful cases shall be resolved in favor of coverage.  For a particular
product received by a particular user, "normally used" refers to a
typical or common use of that class of product, regardless of the status
of the particular user or of the way in which the particular user
actually uses, or expects or is expected to use, the product.  A product
is a consumer product regardless of whether the product has substantial
commercial, industrial or non-consumer uses, unless such uses represent
the only significant mode of use of the product.

  "Installation Information" for a User Product means any methods,
procedures, authorization keys, or other information required to install
and execute modified versions of a covered work in that User Product from
a modified version of its Corresponding Source.  The information must
suffice to ensure that the continued functioning of the modified object
code is in no case prevented or interfered with solely because
modification has been made.

  If you convey an object code work under this section in, or with, or
specifically for use in, a User Product, and the conveying occurs as
part of a transaction in which the right of possession and use of the
User Product is transferred to the recipient in perpetuity or for a
fixed term (regardless of how the transaction is characterized), the
Corresponding Source conveyed under this section must be accompanied
by the Installation Information.  But this requirement does not apply
if neither you nor any third party retains the ability to install
modified object code on the User Product (for example, the work has
been installed in ROM).

  The requirement to provide Installation Information does not include a
requirement to continue to provide support service, warranty, or updates
for a work that has been modified or installed by the recipient, or for
the User Product in which it has been modified or installed.  Access to a
network may be denied when the modification itself materially and
adversely affects the operation of the network or violates the rules and
protocols for communication across the network.

  Corresponding Source conveyed, and Installation Information provided,
in accord with this section must be in a format that is publicly
documented (and with an implementation available to the public in
source code form), and must require no special password or key for
unpacking, reading or copying.

  7. Additional Terms.

  "Additional permissions" are terms that supplement the terms of this
License by making exceptions from one or more of its conditions.
Additional permissions that are applicable to the entire Program shall
be treated as though they were included in this License, to the extent
that they are valid under applicable law.  If additional permissions
apply only to part of the Program, that part may be used separately
under those permissions, but the entire Program remains governed by
this License without regard to the additional permissions.

  When you convey a copy of a covered work, you may at your option
remove any additional permissions from that copy, or from any part of
it.  (Additional permissions may be written to require their own
removal in certain cases when you modify the work.)  You may place
additional permissions on material, added by you to a covered work,
for which you have or can give appropriate copyright permission.

  Notwithstanding any other provision of this License, for material you
add to a covered work, you may (if authorized by the copyright holders of
that material) supplement the terms of this License with terms:

    a) Disclaiming warranty or limiting liability differently from the
    terms of sections 15 and 16 of this License; or

    b) Requiring preservation of specified reasonable legal notices or
    author attributions in that material or in the Appropriate Legal
    Notices displayed by works containing it; or

    c) Prohibiting misrepresentation of the origin of that material, or
    requiring that modified versions of such material be marked in
    reasonable ways as different from the original version; or

    d) Limiting the use for publicity purposes of names of licensors or
    authors of the material; or

    e) Declining to grant rights under trademark law for use of some
    trade names, trademarks, or service marks; or

    f) Requiring indemnification of licensors and authors of that
    material by anyone who conveys the material (or modified versions of
    it) with contractual assumptions of liability to the recipient, for
    any liability that these contractual assumptions directly impose on
    those licensors and authors.

  All other non-permissive additional terms are considered "further
restrictions" within the meaning of section 10.  If the Program as you
received it, or any part of it, contains a notice stating that it is
governed by this License along with a term that is a further
restriction, you may remove that term.  If a license document contains
a further restriction but permits relicensing or conveying under this
License, you may add to a covered work material governed by the terms
of that license document, provided that the further restriction does
not survive such relicensing or conveying.

  If you add terms to a covered work in accord with this section, you
must place, in the relevant source files, a statement of the
additional terms that apply to those files, or a notice indicating
where to find the applicable terms.

  Additional terms, permissive or non-permissive, may be stated in the
form of a separately written license, or stated as exceptions;
the above requirements apply either way.

  8. Termination.

  You may not propagate or modify a covered work except as expressly
provided under this License.  Any attempt otherwise to propagate or
modify it is void, and will automatically terminate your rights under
this License (including any patent licenses granted under the third
paragraph of section 11).

  However, if you cease all violation of this License, then your
license from a particular copyright holder is reinstated (a)
provisionally, unless and until the copyright holder explicitly and
finally terminates your license, and (b) permanently, if the copyright
holder fails to notify you of the violation by some reasonable means
prior to 60 days after the cessation.

  Moreover, your license from a particular copyright holder is
reinstated permanently if the copyright holder notifies you of the
violation by some reasonable means, this is the first time you have
received notice of violation of this License (for any work) from that
copyright holder, and you cure the violation prior to 30 days after
your receipt of the notice.

  Termination of your rights under this section does not terminate the
licenses of parties who have received copies or rights from you under
this License.  If your rights have been terminated and not permanently
reinstated, you do not qualify to receive new licenses for the same
material under section 10.

  9. Acceptance Not Required for Having Copies.

  You are not required to accept this License in order to receive or
run a copy of the Program.  Ancillary propagation of a covered work
occurring solely as a consequence of using peer-to-peer transmission
to receive a copy likewise does not require acceptance.  However,
nothing other than this License grants you permission to propagate or
modify any covered work.  These actions infringe copyright if you do
not accept this License.  Therefore, by modifying or propagating a
covered work, you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so.

  10. Automatic Licensing of Downstream Recipients.

  Each time you convey a covered work, the recipient automatically
receives a license from the original licensors, to run, modify and
propagate that work, subject to this License.  You are not responsible
for enforcing compliance by third parties with this License.

  An "entity transaction" is a transaction transferring control of an
organization, or substantially all assets of one, or subdividing an
organization, or merging organizations.  If propagation of a covered
work results from an entity transaction, each party to that
transaction who receives a copy of the work also receives whatever
licenses to the work the party's predecessor in interest had or could
give under the previous paragraph, plus a right to possession of the
Corresponding Source of the work from the predecessor in interest, if
the predecessor has it or can get it with reasonable efforts.

  You may not impose any further restrictions on the exercise of the
rights granted or affirmed under this License.  For example, you may
not impose a license fee, royalty, or other charge for exercise of
rights granted under this License, and you may not initiate litigation
(including a cross-claim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that
any patent claim is infringed by making, using, selling, offering for
sale, or importing the Program or any portion of it.

  11. Patents.

  A "contributor" is a copyright holder who authorizes use under this
License of the Program or a work on which the Program is based.  The
work thus licensed is called the contributor's "contributor version".

  A contributor's "essential patent claims" are all patent claims
owned or controlled by the contributor, whether already acquired or
hereafter acquired, that would be infringed by some manner, permitted
by this License, of making, using, or selling its contributor version,
but do not include claims that would be infringed only as a
consequence of further modification of the contributor version.  For
purposes of this definition, "control" includes the right to grant
patent sublicenses in a manner consistent with the requirements of
this License.

  Each contributor grants you a non-exclusive, worldwide, royalty-free
patent license under the contributor's essential patent claims, to
make, use, sell, offer for sale, import and otherwise run, modify and
propagate the contents of its contributor version.

  In the following three paragraphs, a "patent license" is any express
agreement or commitment, however denominated, not to enforce a patent
(such as an express permission to practice a patent or covenant not to
sue for patent infringement).  To "grant" such a patent license to a
party means to make such an agreement or commitment not to enforce a
patent against the party.

  If you convey a covered work, knowingly relying on a patent license,
and the Corresponding Source of the work is not available for anyone
to copy, free of charge and under the terms of this License, through a
publicly available network server or other readily accessible means,
then you must either (1) cause the Corresponding Source to be so
available, or (2) arrange to deprive yourself of the benefit of the
patent license for this particular work, or (3) arrange, in a manner
consistent with the requirements of this License, to extend the patent
license to downstream recipients.  "Knowingly relying" means you have
actual knowledge that, but for the patent license, your conveying the
covered work in a country, or your recipient's use of the covered work
in a country, would infringe one or more identifiable patents in that
country that you have reason to believe are valid.

  If, pursuant to or in connection with a single transaction or
arrangement, you convey, or propagate by procuring conveyance of, a
covered work, and grant a patent license to some of the parties
receiving the covered work authorizing them to use, propagate, modify
or convey a specific copy of the covered work, then the patent license
you grant is automatically extended to all recipients of the covered
work and works based on it.

  A patent license is "discriminatory" if it does not include within
the scope of its coverage, prohibits the exercise of, or is
conditioned on the non-exercise of one or more of the rights that are
specifically granted under this License.  You may not convey a covered
work if you are a party to an arrangement with a third party that is
in the business of distributing software, under which you make payment
to the third party based on the extent of your activity of conveying
the work, and under which the third party grants, to any of the
parties who would receive the covered work from you, a discriminatory
patent license (a) in connection with copies of the covered work
conveyed by you (or copies made from those copies), or (b) primarily
for and in connection with specific products or compilations that
contain the covered work, unless you entered into that arrangement,
or that patent license was granted, prior to 28 March 2007.

  Nothing in this License shall be construed as excluding or limiting
any implied license or other defenses to infringement that may
otherwise be available to you under applicable patent law.

  12. No Surrender of Others' Freedom.

  If conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not
excuse you from the conditions of this License.  If you cannot convey a
covered work so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this
License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you may
not convey it at all.  For example, if you agree to terms that obligate you
to collect a royalty for further conveying from those to whom you convey
the Program, the only way you could satisfy both those terms and this
License would be to refrain entirely from conveying the Program.

  13. Use with the GNU Affero General Public License.

  Notwithstanding any other provision of this License, you have
permission to link or combine any covered work with a work licensed
under version 3 of the GNU Affero General Public License into a single
combined work, and to convey the resulting work.  The terms of this
License will continue to apply to the part which is the covered work,
but the special requirements of the GNU Affero General Public License,
section 13, concerning interaction through a network will apply to the
combination as such.

  14. Revised Versions of this License.

  The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions of
the GNU General Public License from time to time.  Such new versions will
be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to
address new problems or concerns.

  Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the
Program specifies that a certain numbered version of the GNU General
Public License "or any later version" applies to it, you have the
option of following the terms and conditions either of that numbered
version or of any later version published by the Free Software
Foundation.  If the Program does not specify a version number of the
GNU General Public License, you may choose any version ever published
by the Free Software Foundation.

  If the Program specifies that a proxy can decide which future
versions of the GNU General Public License can be used, that proxy's
public statement of acceptance of a version permanently authorizes you
to choose that version for the Program.

  Later license versions may give you additional or different
permissions.  However, no additional obligations are imposed on any
author or copyright holder as a result of your choosing to follow a
later version.

  15. Disclaimer of Warranty.

  THERE IS NO WARRANTY FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY
APPLICABLE LAW.  EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT
HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY
OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM
IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF
ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

  16. Limitation of Liability.

  IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MODIFIES AND/OR CONVEYS
THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY
GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE
USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF
DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD
PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER PROGRAMS),
EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
SUCH DAMAGES.

  17. Interpretation of Sections 15 and 16.

  If the disclaimer of warranty and limitation of liability provided
above cannot be given local legal effect according to their terms,
reviewing courts shall apply local law that most closely approximates
an absolute waiver of all civil liability in connection with the
Program, unless a warranty or assumption of liability accompanies a
copy of the Program in return for a fee.

                     END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

            How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs

  If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest
possible use to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it
free software which everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.

  To do so, attach the following notices to the program.  It is safest
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively
state the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least
the "copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

    <one line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
    Copyright (C) <year>  <name of author>

    This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
    the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
    (at your option) any later version.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
    GNU General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
    along with this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

  If the program does terminal interaction, make it output a short
notice like this when it starts in an interactive mode:

    <program>  Copyright (C) <year>  <name of author>
    This program comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'.
    This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it
    under certain conditions; type `show c' for details.

The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate
parts of the General Public License.  Of course, your program's commands
might be different; for a GUI interface, you would use an "about box".

  You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or school,
if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if necessary.
For more information on this, and how to apply and follow the GNU GPL, see
<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

  The GNU General Public License does not permit incorporating your program
into proprietary programs.  If your program is a subroutine library, you
may consider it more useful to permit linking proprietary applications with
the library.  If this is what you want to do, use the GNU Lesser General
Public License instead of this License.  But first, please read
<http://www.gnu.org/philosophy/why-not-lgpl.html>.






















GNU Lesser General Public License, version 2.1
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
                  GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
                       Version 2.1, February 1999

 Copyright (C) 1991, 1999 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.

[This is the first released version of the Lesser GPL.  It also counts
 as the successor of the GNU Library General Public License, version 2, hence
 the version number 2.1.]

                            Preamble

  The licenses for most software are designed to take away your
freedom to share and change it.  By contrast, the GNU General Public
Licenses are intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change
free software--to make sure the software is free for all its users.

  This license, the Lesser General Public License, applies to some
specially designated software packages--typically libraries--of the
Free Software Foundation and other authors who decide to use it.  You
can use it too, but we suggest you first think carefully about whether
this license or the ordinary General Public License is the better
strategy to use in any particular case, based on the explanations below.

  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom of use,
not price.  Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that
you have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge
for this service if you wish); that you receive source code or can get
it if you want it; that you can change the software and use pieces of
it in new free programs; and that you are informed that you can do
these things.

  To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid
distributors to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender these
rights.  These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for
you if you distribute copies of the library or if you modify it.

  For example, if you distribute copies of the library, whether gratis
or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that we gave
you.  You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the source
code.  If you link other code with the library, you must provide
complete object files to the recipients, so that they can relink them
with the library after making changes to the library and recompiling
it.  And you must show them these terms so they know their rights.

  We protect your rights with a two-step method: (1) we copyright the
library, and (2) we offer you this license, which gives you legal
permission to copy, distribute and/or modify the library.

  To protect each distributor, we want to make it very clear that
there is no warranty for the free library.  Also, if the library is
modified by someone else and passed on, the recipients should know
that what they have is not the original version, so that the original
author's reputation will not be affected by problems that might be
introduced by others.

  Finally, software patents pose a constant threat to the existence of
any free program.  We wish to make sure that a company cannot
effectively restrict the users of a free program by obtaining a
restrictive license from a patent holder.  Therefore, we insist that
any patent license obtained for a version of the library must be
consistent with the full freedom of use specified in this license.

  Most GNU software, including some libraries, is covered by the
ordinary GNU General Public License.  This license, the GNU Lesser
General Public License, applies to certain designated libraries, and
is quite different from the ordinary General Public License.  We use
this license for certain libraries in order to permit linking those
libraries into non-free programs.

  When a program is linked with a library, whether statically or using
a shared library, the combination of the two is legally speaking a
combined work, a derivative of the original library.  The ordinary
General Public License therefore permits such linking only if the
entire combination fits its criteria of freedom.  The Lesser General
Public License permits more lax criteria for linking other code with
the library.

  We call this license the "Lesser" General Public License because it
does Less to protect the user's freedom than the ordinary General
Public License.  It also provides other free software developers Less
of an advantage over competing non-free programs.  These disadvantages
are the reason we use the ordinary General Public License for many
libraries.  However, the Lesser license provides advantages in certain
special circumstances.

  For example, on rare occasions, there may be a special need to
encourage the widest possible use of a certain library, so that it becomes
a de-facto standard.  To achieve this, non-free programs must be
allowed to use the library.  A more frequent case is that a free
library does the same job as widely used non-free libraries.  In this
case, there is little to gain by limiting the free library to free
software only, so we use the Lesser General Public License.

  In other cases, permission to use a particular library in non-free
programs enables a greater number of people to use a large body of
free software.  For example, permission to use the GNU C Library in
non-free programs enables many more people to use the whole GNU
operating system, as well as its variant, the GNU/Linux operating
system.

  Although the Lesser General Public License is Less protective of the
users' freedom, it does ensure that the user of a program that is
linked with the Library has the freedom and the wherewithal to run
that program using a modified version of the Library.

  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and
modification follow.  Pay close attention to the difference between a
"work based on the library" and a "work that uses the library".  The
former contains code derived from the library, whereas the latter must
be combined with the library in order to run.

                  GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION

  0. This License Agreement applies to any software library or other
program which contains a notice placed by the copyright holder or
other authorized party saying it may be distributed under the terms of
this Lesser General Public License (also called "this License").
Each licensee is addressed as "you".

  A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data
prepared so as to be conveniently linked with application programs
(which use some of those functions and data) to form executables.

  The "Library", below, refers to any such software library or work
which has been distributed under these terms.  A "work based on the
Library" means either the Library or any derivative work under
copyright law: that is to say, a work containing the Library or a
portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated
straightforwardly into another language.  (Hereinafter, translation is
included without limitation in the term "modification".)

  "Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for
making modifications to it.  For a library, complete source code means
all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any associated
interface definition files, plus the scripts used to control compilation
and installation of the library.

  Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not
covered by this License; they are outside its scope.  The act of
running a program using the Library is not restricted, and output from
such a program is covered only if its contents constitute a work based
on the Library (independent of the use of the Library in a tool for
writing it).  Whether that is true depends on what the Library does
and what the program that uses the Library does.

  1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Library's
complete source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that
you conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an
appropriate copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact
all the notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any
warranty; and distribute a copy of this License along with the
Library.

  You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy,
and you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a
fee.

  2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Library or any portion
of it, thus forming a work based on the Library, and copy and
distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1
above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:

    a) The modified work must itself be a software library.

    b) You must cause the files modified to carry prominent notices
    stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.

    c) You must cause the whole of the work to be licensed at no
    charge to all third parties under the terms of this License.

    d) If a facility in the modified Library refers to a function or a
    table of data to be supplied by an application program that uses
    the facility, other than as an argument passed when the facility
    is invoked, then you must make a good faith effort to ensure that,
    in the event an application does not supply such function or
    table, the facility still operates, and performs whatever part of
    its purpose remains meaningful.

    (For example, a function in a library to compute square roots has
    a purpose that is entirely well-defined independent of the
    application.  Therefore, Subsection 2d requires that any
    application-supplied function or table used by this function must
    be optional: if the application does not supply it, the square
    root function must still compute square roots.)

These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.  If
identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Library,
and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in
themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those
sections when you distribute them as separate works.  But when you
distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based
on the Library, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote
it.

Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest
your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to
exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or
collective works based on the Library.

In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Library
with the Library (or with a work based on the Library) on a volume of
a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under
the scope of this License.

  3. You may opt to apply the terms of the ordinary GNU General Public
License instead of this License to a given copy of the Library.  To do
this, you must alter all the notices that refer to this License, so
that they refer to the ordinary GNU General Public License, version 2,
instead of to this License.  (If a newer version than version 2 of the
ordinary GNU General Public License has appeared, then you can specify
that version instead if you wish.)  Do not make any other change in
these notices.

  Once this change is made in a given copy, it is irreversible for
that copy, so the ordinary GNU General Public License applies to all
subsequent copies and derivative works made from that copy.

  This option is useful when you wish to copy part of the code of
the Library into a program that is not a library.

  4. You may copy and distribute the Library (or a portion or
derivative of it, under Section 2) in object code or executable form
under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you accompany
it with the complete corresponding machine-readable source code, which
must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a
medium customarily used for software interchange.

  If distribution of object code is made by offering access to copy
from a designated place, then offering equivalent access to copy the
source code from the same place satisfies the requirement to
distribute the source code, even though third parties are not
compelled to copy the source along with the object code.

  5. A program that contains no derivative of any portion of the
Library, but is designed to work with the Library by being compiled or
linked with it, is called a "work that uses the Library".  Such a
work, in isolation, is not a derivative work of the Library, and
therefore falls outside the scope of this License.

  However, linking a "work that uses the Library" with the Library
creates an executable that is a derivative of the Library (because it
contains portions of the Library), rather than a "work that uses the
library".  The executable is therefore covered by this License.
Section 6 states terms for distribution of such executables.

  When a "work that uses the Library" uses material from a header file
that is part of the Library, the object code for the work may be a
derivative work of the Library even though the source code is not.
Whether this is true is especially significant if the work can be
linked without the Library, or if the work is itself a library.  The
threshold for this to be true is not precisely defined by law.

  If such an object file uses only numerical parameters, data
structure layouts and accessors, and small macros and small inline
functions (ten lines or less in length), then the use of the object
file is unrestricted, regardless of whether it is legally a derivative
work.  (Executables containing this object code plus portions of the
Library will still fall under Section 6.)

  Otherwise, if the work is a derivative of the Library, you may
distribute the object code for the work under the terms of Section 6.
Any executables containing that work also fall under Section 6,
whether or not they are linked directly with the Library itself.

  6. As an exception to the Sections above, you may also combine or
link a "work that uses the Library" with the Library to produce a
work containing portions of the Library, and distribute that work
under terms of your choice, provided that the terms permit
modification of the work for the customer's own use and reverse
engineering for debugging such modifications.

  You must give prominent notice with each copy of the work that the
Library is used in it and that the Library and its use are covered by
this License.  You must supply a copy of this License.  If the work
during execution displays copyright notices, you must include the
copyright notice for the Library among them, as well as a reference
directing the user to the copy of this License.  Also, you must do one
of these things:

    a) Accompany the work with the complete corresponding
    machine-readable source code for the Library including whatever
    changes were used in the work (which must be distributed under
    Sections 1 and 2 above); and, if the work is an executable linked
    with the Library, with the complete machine-readable "work that
    uses the Library", as object code and/or source code, so that the
    user can modify the Library and then relink to produce a modified
    executable containing the modified Library.  (It is understood
    that the user who changes the contents of definitions files in the
    Library will not necessarily be able to recompile the application
    to use the modified definitions.)

    b) Use a suitable shared library mechanism for linking with the
    Library.  A suitable mechanism is one that (1) uses at run time a
    copy of the library already present on the user's computer system,
    rather than copying library functions into the executable, and (2)
    will operate properly with a modified version of the library, if
    the user installs one, as long as the modified version is
    interface-compatible with the version that the work was made with.

    c) Accompany the work with a written offer, valid for at
    least three years, to give the same user the materials
    specified in Subsection 6a, above, for a charge no more
    than the cost of performing this distribution.

    d) If distribution of the work is made by offering access to copy
    from a designated place, offer equivalent access to copy the above
    specified materials from the same place.

    e) Verify that the user has already received a copy of these
    materials or that you have already sent this user a copy.

  For an executable, the required form of the "work that uses the
Library" must include any data and utility programs needed for
reproducing the executable from it.  However, as a special exception,
the materials to be distributed need not include anything that is
normally distributed (in either source or binary form) with the major
components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the operating system on
which the executable runs, unless that component itself accompanies
the executable.

  It may happen that this requirement contradicts the license
restrictions of other proprietary libraries that do not normally
accompany the operating system.  Such a contradiction means you cannot
use both them and the Library together in an executable that you
distribute.

  7. You may place library facilities that are a work based on the
Library side-by-side in a single library together with other library
facilities not covered by this License, and distribute such a combined
library, provided that the separate distribution of the work based on
the Library and of the other library facilities is otherwise
permitted, and provided that you do these two things:

    a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work
    based on the Library, uncombined with any other library
    facilities.  This must be distributed under the terms of the
    Sections above.

    b) Give prominent notice with the combined library of the fact
    that part of it is a work based on the Library, and explaining
    where to find the accompanying uncombined form of the same work.

  8. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or distribute
the Library except as expressly provided under this License.  Any
attempt otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense, link with, or
distribute the Library is void, and will automatically terminate your
rights under this License.  However, parties who have received copies,
or rights, from you under this License will not have their licenses
terminated so long as such parties remain in full compliance.

  9. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not
signed it.  However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or
distribute the Library or its derivative works.  These actions are
prohibited by law if you do not accept this License.  Therefore, by
modifying or distributing the Library (or any work based on the
Library), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and
all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying
the Library or works based on it.

  10. Each time you redistribute the Library (or any work based on the
Library), the recipient automatically receives a license from the
original licensor to copy, distribute, link with or modify the Library
subject to these terms and conditions.  You may not impose any further
restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.
You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties with
this License.

  11. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not
excuse you from the conditions of this License.  If you cannot
distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this
License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you
may not distribute the Library at all.  For example, if a patent
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Library by
all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then
the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to
refrain entirely from distribution of the Library.

If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply,
and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any
patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any
such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the
integrity of the free software distribution system which is
implemented by public license practices.  Many people have made
generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed
through that system in reliance on consistent application of that
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing
to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot
impose that choice.

This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to
be a consequence of the rest of this License.

  12. If the distribution and/or use of the Library is restricted in
certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the
original copyright holder who places the Library under this License may add
an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding those countries,
so that distribution is permitted only in or among countries not thus
excluded.  In such case, this License incorporates the limitation as if
written in the body of this License.

  13. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new
versions of the Lesser General Public License from time to time.
Such new versions will be similar in spirit to the present version,
but may differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.

Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Library
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and
"any later version", you have the option of following the terms and
conditions either of that version or of any later version published by
the Free Software Foundation.  If the Library does not specify a
license version number, you may choose any version ever published by
the Free Software Foundation.

  14. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Library into other free
programs whose distribution conditions are incompatible with these,
write to the author to ask for permission.  For software which is
copyrighted by the Free Software Foundation, write to the Free
Software Foundation; we sometimes make exceptions for this.  Our
decision will be guided by the two goals of preserving the free status
of all derivatives of our free software and of promoting the sharing
and reuse of software generally.

                            NO WARRANTY

  15. BECAUSE THE LIBRARY IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO
WARRANTY FOR THE LIBRARY, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.
EXCEPT WHEN OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR
OTHER PARTIES PROVIDE THE LIBRARY "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY
KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE
LIBRARY IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE LIBRARY PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME
THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION.

  16. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN
WRITING WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY
AND/OR REDISTRIBUTE THE LIBRARY AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU
FOR DAMAGES, INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE
LIBRARY (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING
RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A
FAILURE OF THE LIBRARY TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER SOFTWARE), EVEN IF
SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGES.

                     END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS

           How to Apply These Terms to Your New Libraries

  If you develop a new library, and you want it to be of the greatest
possible use to the public, we recommend making it free software that
everyone can redistribute and change.  You can do so by permitting
redistribution under these terms (or, alternatively, under the terms of the
ordinary General Public License).

  To apply these terms, attach the following notices to the library.  It is
safest to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively
convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least the
"copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.

    <one line to give the library's name and a brief idea of what it does.>
    Copyright (C) <year>  <name of author>

    This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
    modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
    License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
    version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

    This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
    Lesser General Public License for more details.

    You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
    License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
    Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA

Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.

You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your
school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the library, if
necessary.  Here is a sample; alter the names:

  Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the
  library `Frob' (a library for tweaking knobs) written by James Random Hacker.

  <signature of Ty Coon>, 1 April 1990
  Ty Coon, President of Vice

That's all there is to it!





















GNU Lesser General Public License, version 3
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
                   GNU LESSER GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE
                       Version 3, 29 June 2007

 Copyright (C) 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc. <http://fsf.org/>
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.


  This version of the GNU Lesser General Public License incorporates
the terms and conditions of version 3 of the GNU General Public
License, supplemented by the additional permissions listed below.

  0. Additional Definitions.

  As used herein, "this License" refers to version 3 of the GNU Lesser
General Public License, and the "GNU GPL" refers to version 3 of the GNU
General Public License.

  "The Library" refers to a covered work governed by this License,
other than an Application or a Combined Work as defined below.

  An "Application" is any work that makes use of an interface provided
by the Library, but which is not otherwise based on the Library.
Defining a subclass of a class defined by the Library is deemed a mode
of using an interface provided by the Library.

  A "Combined Work" is a work produced by combining or linking an
Application with the Library.  The particular version of the Library
with which the Combined Work was made is also called the "Linked
Version".

  The "Minimal Corresponding Source" for a Combined Work means the
Corresponding Source for the Combined Work, excluding any source code
for portions of the Combined Work that, considered in isolation, are
based on the Application, and not on the Linked Version.

  The "Corresponding Application Code" for a Combined Work means the
object code and/or source code for the Application, including any data
and utility programs needed for reproducing the Combined Work from the
Application, but excluding the System Libraries of the Combined Work.

  1. Exception to Section 3 of the GNU GPL.

  You may convey a covered work under sections 3 and 4 of this License
without being bound by section 3 of the GNU GPL.

  2. Conveying Modified Versions.

  If you modify a copy of the Library, and, in your modifications, a
facility refers to a function or data to be supplied by an Application
that uses the facility (other than as an argument passed when the
facility is invoked), then you may convey a copy of the modified
version:

   a) under this License, provided that you make a good faith effort to
   ensure that, in the event an Application does not supply the
   function or data, the facility still operates, and performs
   whatever part of its purpose remains meaningful, or

   b) under the GNU GPL, with none of the additional permissions of
   this License applicable to that copy.

  3. Object Code Incorporating Material from Library Header Files.

  The object code form of an Application may incorporate material from
a header file that is part of the Library.  You may convey such object
code under terms of your choice, provided that, if the incorporated
material is not limited to numerical parameters, data structure
layouts and accessors, or small macros, inline functions and templates
(ten or fewer lines in length), you do both of the following:

   a) Give prominent notice with each copy of the object code that the
   Library is used in it and that the Library and its use are
   covered by this License.

   b) Accompany the object code with a copy of the GNU GPL and this license
   document.

  4. Combined Works.

  You may convey a Combined Work under terms of your choice that,
taken together, effectively do not restrict modification of the
portions of the Library contained in the Combined Work and reverse
engineering for debugging such modifications, if you also do each of
the following:

   a) Give prominent notice with each copy of the Combined Work that
   the Library is used in it and that the Library and its use are
   covered by this License.

   b) Accompany the Combined Work with a copy of the GNU GPL and this license
   document.

   c) For a Combined Work that displays copyright notices during
   execution, include the copyright notice for the Library among
   these notices, as well as a reference directing the user to the
   copies of the GNU GPL and this license document.

   d) Do one of the following:

       0) Convey the Minimal Corresponding Source under the terms of this
       License, and the Corresponding Application Code in a form
       suitable for, and under terms that permit, the user to
       recombine or relink the Application with a modified version of
       the Linked Version to produce a modified Combined Work, in the
       manner specified by section 6 of the GNU GPL for conveying
       Corresponding Source.

       1) Use a suitable shared library mechanism for linking with the
       Library.  A suitable mechanism is one that (a) uses at run time
       a copy of the Library already present on the user's computer
       system, and (b) will operate properly with a modified version
       of the Library that is interface-compatible with the Linked
       Version.

   e) Provide Installation Information, but only if you would otherwise
   be required to provide such information under section 6 of the
   GNU GPL, and only to the extent that such information is
   necessary to install and execute a modified version of the
   Combined Work produced by recombining or relinking the
   Application with a modified version of the Linked Version. (If
   you use option 4d0, the Installation Information must accompany
   the Minimal Corresponding Source and Corresponding Application
   Code. If you use option 4d1, you must provide the Installation
   Information in the manner specified by section 6 of the GNU GPL
   for conveying Corresponding Source.)

  5. Combined Libraries.

  You may place library facilities that are a work based on the
Library side by side in a single library together with other library
facilities that are not Applications and are not covered by this
License, and convey such a combined library under terms of your
choice, if you do both of the following:

   a) Accompany the combined library with a copy of the same work based
   on the Library, uncombined with any other library facilities,
   conveyed under the terms of this License.

   b) Give prominent notice with the combined library that part of it
   is a work based on the Library, and explaining where to find the
   accompanying uncombined form of the same work.

  6. Revised Versions of the GNU Lesser General Public License.

  The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions
of the GNU Lesser General Public License from time to time. Such new
versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but may
differ in detail to address new problems or concerns.

  Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the
Library as you received it specifies that a certain numbered version
of the GNU Lesser General Public License "or any later version"
applies to it, you have the option of following the terms and
conditions either of that published version or of any later version
published by the Free Software Foundation. If the Library as you
received it does not specify a version number of the GNU Lesser
General Public License, you may choose any version of the GNU Lesser
General Public License ever published by the Free Software Foundation.

  If the Library as you received it specifies that a proxy can decide
whether future versions of the GNU Lesser General Public License shall
apply, that proxy's public statement of acceptance of any version is
permanent authorization for you to choose that version for the
Library.





















Mozilla Public License, version 1.1
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
                          MOZILLA PUBLIC LICENSE
                                Version 1.1

                              ---------------

1. Definitions.

     1.0.1. "Commercial Use" means distribution or otherwise making the
     Covered Code available to a third party.

     1.1. "Contributor" means each entity that creates or contributes to
     the creation of Modifications.

     1.2. "Contributor Version" means the combination of the Original
     Code, prior Modifications used by a Contributor, and the Modifications
     made by that particular Contributor.

     1.3. "Covered Code" means the Original Code or Modifications or the
     combination of the Original Code and Modifications, in each case
     including portions thereof.

     1.4. "Electronic Distribution Mechanism" means a mechanism generally
     accepted in the software development community for the electronic
     transfer of data.

     1.5. "Executable" means Covered Code in any form other than Source
     Code.

     1.6. "Initial Developer" means the individual or entity identified
     as the Initial Developer in the Source Code notice required by Exhibit
     A.

     1.7. "Larger Work" means a work which combines Covered Code or
     portions thereof with code not governed by the terms of this License.

     1.8. "License" means this document.

     1.8.1. "Licensable" means having the right to grant, to the maximum
     extent possible, whether at the time of the initial grant or
     subsequently acquired, any and all of the rights conveyed herein.

     1.9. "Modifications" means any addition to or deletion from the
     substance or structure of either the Original Code or any previous
     Modifications. When Covered Code is released as a series of files, a
     Modification is:
          A. Any addition to or deletion from the contents of a file
          containing Original Code or previous Modifications.

          B. Any new file that contains any part of the Original Code or
          previous Modifications.

     1.10. "Original Code" means Source Code of computer software code
     which is described in the Source Code notice required by Exhibit A as
     Original Code, and which, at the time of its release under this
     License is not already Covered Code governed by this License.

     1.10.1. "Patent Claims" means any patent claim(s), now owned or
     hereafter acquired, including without limitation,  method, process,
     and apparatus claims, in any patent Licensable by grantor.

     1.11. "Source Code" means the preferred form of the Covered Code for
     making modifications to it, including all modules it contains, plus
     any associated interface definition files, scripts used to control
     compilation and installation of an Executable, or source code
     differential comparisons against either the Original Code or another
     well known, available Covered Code of the Contributor's choice. The
     Source Code can be in a compressed or archival form, provided the
     appropriate decompression or de-archiving software is widely available
     for no charge.

     1.12. "You" (or "Your")  means an individual or a legal entity
     exercising rights under, and complying with all of the terms of, this
     License or a future version of this License issued under Section 6.1.
     For legal entities, "You" includes any entity which controls, is
     controlled by, or is under common control with You. For purposes of
     this definition, "control" means (a) the power, direct or indirect,
     to cause the direction or management of such entity, whether by
     contract or otherwise, or (b) ownership of more than fifty percent
     (50%) of the outstanding shares or beneficial ownership of such
     entity.

2. Source Code License.

     2.1. The Initial Developer Grant.
     The Initial Developer hereby grants You a world-wide, royalty-free,
     non-exclusive license, subject to third party intellectual property
     claims:
          (a)  under intellectual property rights (other than patent or
          trademark) Licensable by Initial Developer to use, reproduce,
          modify, display, perform, sublicense and distribute the Original
          Code (or portions thereof) with or without Modifications, and/or
          as part of a Larger Work; and

          (b) under Patents Claims infringed by the making, using or
          selling of Original Code, to make, have made, use, practice,
          sell, and offer for sale, and/or otherwise dispose of the
          Original Code (or portions thereof).

          (c) the licenses granted in this Section 2.1(a) and (b) are
          effective on the date Initial Developer first distributes
          Original Code under the terms of this License.

          (d) Notwithstanding Section 2.1(b) above, no patent license is
          granted: 1) for code that You delete from the Original Code; 2)
          separate from the Original Code;  or 3) for infringements caused
          by: i) the modification of the Original Code or ii) the
          combination of the Original Code with other software or devices.

     2.2. Contributor Grant.
     Subject to third party intellectual property claims, each Contributor
     hereby grants You a world-wide, royalty-free, non-exclusive license

          (a)  under intellectual property rights (other than patent or
          trademark) Licensable by Contributor, to use, reproduce, modify,
          display, perform, sublicense and distribute the Modifications
          created by such Contributor (or portions thereof) either on an
          unmodified basis, with other Modifications, as Covered Code
          and/or as part of a Larger Work; and

          (b) under Patent Claims infringed by the making, using, or
          selling of  Modifications made by that Contributor either alone
          and/or in combination with its Contributor Version (or portions
          of such combination), to make, use, sell, offer for sale, have
          made, and/or otherwise dispose of: 1) Modifications made by that
          Contributor (or portions thereof); and 2) the combination of
          Modifications made by that Contributor with its Contributor
          Version (or portions of such combination).

          (c) the licenses granted in Sections 2.2(a) and 2.2(b) are
          effective on the date Contributor first makes Commercial Use of
          the Covered Code.

          (d)    Notwithstanding Section 2.2(b) above, no patent license is
          granted: 1) for any code that Contributor has deleted from the
          Contributor Version; 2)  separate from the Contributor Version;
          3)  for infringements caused by: i) third party modifications of
          Contributor Version or ii)  the combination of Modifications made
          by that Contributor with other software  (except as part of the
          Contributor Version) or other devices; or 4) under Patent Claims
          infringed by Covered Code in the absence of Modifications made by
          that Contributor.

3. Distribution Obligations.

     3.1. Application of License.
     The Modifications which You create or to which You contribute are
     governed by the terms of this License, including without limitation
     Section 2.2. The Source Code version of Covered Code may be
     distributed only under the terms of this License or a future version
     of this License released under Section 6.1, and You must include a
     copy of this License with every copy of the Source Code You
     distribute. You may not offer or impose any terms on any Source Code
     version that alters or restricts the applicable version of this
     License or the recipients' rights hereunder. However, You may include
     an additional document offering the additional rights described in
     Section 3.5.

     3.2. Availability of Source Code.
     Any Modification which You create or to which You contribute must be
     made available in Source Code form under the terms of this License
     either on the same media as an Executable version or via an accepted
     Electronic Distribution Mechanism to anyone to whom you made an
     Executable version available; and if made available via Electronic
     Distribution Mechanism, must remain available for at least twelve (12)
     months after the date it initially became available, or at least six
     (6) months after a subsequent version of that particular Modification
     has been made available to such recipients. You are responsible for
     ensuring that the Source Code version remains available even if the
     Electronic Distribution Mechanism is maintained by a third party.

     3.3. Description of Modifications.
     You must cause all Covered Code to which You contribute to contain a
     file documenting the changes You made to create that Covered Code and
     the date of any change. You must include a prominent statement that
     the Modification is derived, directly or indirectly, from Original
     Code provided by the Initial Developer and including the name of the
     Initial Developer in (a) the Source Code, and (b) in any notice in an
     Executable version or related documentation in which You describe the
     origin or ownership of the Covered Code.

     3.4. Intellectual Property Matters
          (a) Third Party Claims.
          If Contributor has knowledge that a license under a third party's
          intellectual property rights is required to exercise the rights
          granted by such Contributor under Sections 2.1 or 2.2,
          Contributor must include a text file with the Source Code
          distribution titled "LEGAL" which describes the claim and the
          party making the claim in sufficient detail that a recipient will
          know whom to contact. If Contributor obtains such knowledge after
          the Modification is made available as described in Section 3.2,
          Contributor shall promptly modify the LEGAL file in all copies
          Contributor makes available thereafter and shall take other steps
          (such as notifying appropriate mailing lists or newsgroups)
          reasonably calculated to inform those who received the Covered
          Code that new knowledge has been obtained.

          (b) Contributor APIs.
          If Contributor's Modifications include an application programming
          interface and Contributor has knowledge of patent licenses which
          are reasonably necessary to implement that API, Contributor must
          also include this information in the LEGAL file.

               (c)    Representations.
          Contributor represents that, except as disclosed pursuant to
          Section 3.4(a) above, Contributor believes that Contributor's
          Modifications are Contributor's original creation(s) and/or
          Contributor has sufficient rights to grant the rights conveyed by
          this License.

     3.5. Required Notices.
     You must duplicate the notice in Exhibit A in each file of the Source
     Code.  If it is not possible to put such notice in a particular Source
     Code file due to its structure, then You must include such notice in a
     location (such as a relevant directory) where a user would be likely
     to look for such a notice.  If You created one or more Modification(s)
     You may add your name as a Contributor to the notice described in
     Exhibit A.  You must also duplicate this License in any documentation
     for the Source Code where You describe recipients' rights or ownership
     rights relating to Covered Code.  You may choose to offer, and to
     charge a fee for, warranty, support, indemnity or liability
     obligations to one or more recipients of Covered Code. However, You
     may do so only on Your own behalf, and not on behalf of the Initial
     Developer or any Contributor. You must make it absolutely clear than
     any such warranty, support, indemnity or liability obligation is
     offered by You alone, and You hereby agree to indemnify the Initial
     Developer and every Contributor for any liability incurred by the
     Initial Developer or such Contributor as a result of warranty,
     support, indemnity or liability terms You offer.

     3.6. Distribution of Executable Versions.
     You may distribute Covered Code in Executable form only if the
     requirements of Section 3.1-3.5 have been met for that Covered Code,
     and if You include a notice stating that the Source Code version of
     the Covered Code is available under the terms of this License,
     including a description of how and where You have fulfilled the
     obligations of Section 3.2. The notice must be conspicuously included
     in any notice in an Executable version, related documentation or
     collateral in which You describe recipients' rights relating to the
     Covered Code. You may distribute the Executable version of Covered
     Code or ownership rights under a license of Your choice, which may
     contain terms different from this License, provided that You are in
     compliance with the terms of this License and that the license for the
     Executable version does not attempt to limit or alter the recipient's
     rights in the Source Code version from the rights set forth in this
     License. If You distribute the Executable version under a different
     license You must make it absolutely clear that any terms which differ
     from this License are offered by You alone, not by the Initial
     Developer or any Contributor. You hereby agree to indemnify the
     Initial Developer and every Contributor for any liability incurred by
     the Initial Developer or such Contributor as a result of any such
     terms You offer.

     3.7. Larger Works.
     You may create a Larger Work by combining Covered Code with other code
     not governed by the terms of this License and distribute the Larger
     Work as a single product. In such a case, You must make sure the
     requirements of this License are fulfilled for the Covered Code.

4. Inability to Comply Due to Statute or Regulation.

     If it is impossible for You to comply with any of the terms of this
     License with respect to some or all of the Covered Code due to
     statute, judicial order, or regulation then You must: (a) comply with
     the terms of this License to the maximum extent possible; and (b)
     describe the limitations and the code they affect. Such description
     must be included in the LEGAL file described in Section 3.4 and must
     be included with all distributions of the Source Code. Except to the
     extent prohibited by statute or regulation, such description must be
     sufficiently detailed for a recipient of ordinary skill to be able to
     understand it.

5. Application of this License.

     This License applies to code to which the Initial Developer has
     attached the notice in Exhibit A and to related Covered Code.

6. Versions of the License.

     6.1. New Versions.
     Netscape Communications Corporation ("Netscape") may publish revised
     and/or new versions of the License from time to time. Each version
     will be given a distinguishing version number.

     6.2. Effect of New Versions.
     Once Covered Code has been published under a particular version of the
     License, You may always continue to use it under the terms of that
     version. You may also choose to use such Covered Code under the terms
     of any subsequent version of the License published by Netscape. No one
     other than Netscape has the right to modify the terms applicable to
     Covered Code created under this License.

     6.3. Derivative Works.
     If You create or use a modified version of this License (which you may
     only do in order to apply it to code which is not already Covered Code
     governed by this License), You must (a) rename Your license so that
     the phrases "Mozilla", "MOZILLAPL", "MOZPL", "Netscape",
     "MPL", "NPL" or any confusingly similar phrase do not appear in your
     license (except to note that your license differs from this License)
     and (b) otherwise make it clear that Your version of the license
     contains terms which differ from the Mozilla Public License and
     Netscape Public License. (Filling in the name of the Initial
     Developer, Original Code or Contributor in the notice described in
     Exhibit A shall not of themselves be deemed to be modifications of
     this License.)

7. DISCLAIMER OF WARRANTY.

     COVERED CODE IS PROVIDED UNDER THIS LICENSE ON AN "AS IS" BASIS,
     WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING,
     WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTIES THAT THE COVERED CODE IS FREE OF
     DEFECTS, MERCHANTABLE, FIT FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGING.
     THE ENTIRE RISK AS TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE COVERED CODE
     IS WITH YOU. SHOULD ANY COVERED CODE PROVE DEFECTIVE IN ANY RESPECT,
     YOU (NOT THE INITIAL DEVELOPER OR ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR) ASSUME THE
     COST OF ANY NECESSARY SERVICING, REPAIR OR CORRECTION. THIS DISCLAIMER
     OF WARRANTY CONSTITUTES AN ESSENTIAL PART OF THIS LICENSE. NO USE OF
     ANY COVERED CODE IS AUTHORIZED HEREUNDER EXCEPT UNDER THIS DISCLAIMER.

8. TERMINATION.

     8.1.  This License and the rights granted hereunder will terminate
     automatically if You fail to comply with terms herein and fail to cure
     such breach within 30 days of becoming aware of the breach. All
     sublicenses to the Covered Code which are properly granted shall
     survive any termination of this License. Provisions which, by their
     nature, must remain in effect beyond the termination of this License
     shall survive.

     8.2.  If You initiate litigation by asserting a patent infringement
     claim (excluding declatory judgment actions) against Initial Developer
     or a Contributor (the Initial Developer or Contributor against whom
     You file such action is referred to as "Participant")  alleging that:

     (a)  such Participant's Contributor Version directly or indirectly
     infringes any patent, then any and all rights granted by such
     Participant to You under Sections 2.1 and/or 2.2 of this License
     shall, upon 60 days notice from Participant terminate prospectively,
     unless if within 60 days after receipt of notice You either: (i)
     agree in writing to pay Participant a mutually agreeable reasonable
     royalty for Your past and future use of Modifications made by such
     Participant, or (ii) withdraw Your litigation claim with respect to
     the Contributor Version against such Participant.  If within 60 days
     of notice, a reasonable royalty and payment arrangement are not
     mutually agreed upon in writing by the parties or the litigation claim
     is not withdrawn, the rights granted by Participant to You under
     Sections 2.1 and/or 2.2 automatically terminate at the expiration of
     the 60 day notice period specified above.

     (b)  any software, hardware, or device, other than such Participant's
     Contributor Version, directly or indirectly infringes any patent, then
     any rights granted to You by such Participant under Sections 2.1(b)
     and 2.2(b) are revoked effective as of the date You first made, used,
     sold, distributed, or had made, Modifications made by that
     Participant.

     8.3.  If You assert a patent infringement claim against Participant
     alleging that such Participant's Contributor Version directly or
     indirectly infringes any patent where such claim is resolved (such as
     by license or settlement) prior to the initiation of patent
     infringement litigation, then the reasonable value of the licenses
     granted by such Participant under Sections 2.1 or 2.2 shall be taken
     into account in determining the amount or value of any payment or
     license.

     8.4.  In the event of termination under Sections 8.1 or 8.2 above,
     all end user license agreements (excluding distributors and resellers)
     which have been validly granted by You or any distributor hereunder
     prior to termination shall survive termination.

9. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.

     UNDER NO CIRCUMSTANCES AND UNDER NO LEGAL THEORY, WHETHER TORT
     (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE), CONTRACT, OR OTHERWISE, SHALL YOU, THE INITIAL
     DEVELOPER, ANY OTHER CONTRIBUTOR, OR ANY DISTRIBUTOR OF COVERED CODE,
     OR ANY SUPPLIER OF ANY OF SUCH PARTIES, BE LIABLE TO ANY PERSON FOR
     ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OF ANY
     CHARACTER INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, DAMAGES FOR LOSS OF GOODWILL,
     WORK STOPPAGE, COMPUTER FAILURE OR MALFUNCTION, OR ANY AND ALL OTHER
     COMMERCIAL DAMAGES OR LOSSES, EVEN IF SUCH PARTY SHALL HAVE BEEN
     INFORMED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES. THIS LIMITATION OF
     LIABILITY SHALL NOT APPLY TO LIABILITY FOR DEATH OR PERSONAL INJURY
     RESULTING FROM SUCH PARTY'S NEGLIGENCE TO THE EXTENT APPLICABLE LAW
     PROHIBITS SUCH LIMITATION. SOME JURISDICTIONS DO NOT ALLOW THE
     EXCLUSION OR LIMITATION OF INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES, SO
     THIS EXCLUSION AND LIMITATION MAY NOT APPLY TO YOU.

10. U.S. GOVERNMENT END USERS.

     The Covered Code is a "commercial item," as that term is defined in
     48 C.F.R. 2.101 (Oct. 1995), consisting of "commercial computer
     software" and "commercial computer software documentation," as such
     terms are used in 48 C.F.R. 12.212 (Sept. 1995). Consistent with 48
     C.F.R. 12.212 and 48 C.F.R. 227.7202-1 through 227.7202-4 (June 1995),
     all U.S. Government End Users acquire Covered Code with only those
     rights set forth herein.

11. MISCELLANEOUS.

     This License represents the complete agreement concerning subject
     matter hereof. If any provision of this License is held to be
     unenforceable, such provision shall be reformed only to the extent
     necessary to make it enforceable. This License shall be governed by
     California law provisions (except to the extent applicable law, if
     any, provides otherwise), excluding its conflict-of-law provisions.
     With respect to disputes in which at least one party is a citizen of,
     or an entity chartered or registered to do business in the United
     States of America, any litigation relating to this License shall be
     subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal Courts of the Northern
     District of California, with venue lying in Santa Clara County,
     California, with the losing party responsible for costs, including
     without limitation, court costs and reasonable attorneys' fees and
     expenses. The application of the United Nations Convention on
     Contracts for the International Sale of Goods is expressly excluded.
     Any law or regulation which provides that the language of a contract
     shall be construed against the drafter shall not apply to this
     License.

12. RESPONSIBILITY FOR CLAIMS.

     As between Initial Developer and the Contributors, each party is
     responsible for claims and damages arising, directly or indirectly,
     out of its utilization of rights under this License and You agree to
     work with Initial Developer and Contributors to distribute such
     responsibility on an equitable basis. Nothing herein is intended or
     shall be deemed to constitute any admission of liability.

13. MULTIPLE-LICENSED CODE.

     Initial Developer may designate portions of the Covered Code as
     "Multiple-Licensed".  "Multiple-Licensed" means that the Initial
     Developer permits you to utilize portions of the Covered Code under
     Your choice of the NPL or the alternative licenses, if any, specified
     by the Initial Developer in the file described in Exhibit A.

EXHIBIT A -Mozilla Public License.

     ``The contents of this file are subject to the Mozilla Public License
     Version 1.1 (the "License"); you may not use this file except in
     compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the License at
     http://www.mozilla.org/MPL/

     Software distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS"
     basis, WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the
     License for the specific language governing rights and limitations
     under the License.

     The Original Code is ______________________________________.

     The Initial Developer of the Original Code is ________________________.
     Portions created by ______________________ are Copyright (C) ______
     _______________________. All Rights Reserved.

     Contributor(s): ______________________________________.

     Alternatively, the contents of this file may be used under the terms
     of the _____ license (the  "[___] License"), in which case the
     provisions of [______] License are applicable instead of those
     above.  If you wish to allow use of your version of this file only
     under the terms of the [____] License and not to allow others to use
     your version of this file under the MPL, indicate your decision by
     deleting  the provisions above and replace  them with the notice and
     other provisions required by the [___] License.  If you do not delete
     the provisions above, a recipient may use your version of this file
     under either the MPL or the [___] License."

     [NOTE: The text of this Exhibit A may differ slightly from the text of
     the notices in the Source Code files of the Original Code. You should
     use the text of this Exhibit A rather than the text found in the
     Original Code Source Code for Your Modifications.]





Part Five: Additional Acknowledgements.

Alloy Look&Feel
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
The Alloy Look&Feel software and related documentation is copyright (c) INCORS GmbH.

JRE
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
This product includes code licensed from RSA Security, Inc.
Some portions licensed from IBM are available at http://oss.software.ibm.com/icu4j/.

Group JPEG
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
This software is based in part on the work of the Independent JPEG Group.

WindU
<<<<<<<<<<xilinx-separator>>>>>>>>>>
Portions Copyright (c) 1995 Bristol Technology Inc.  All Rights Reserved.
Portions Copyright (c) 1995 Microsoft Corporation.  All Rights Reserved.



2022.03.25